Sendy, a tech company that builds fulfilment infrastructure for e-commerce and consumer brands, is partnering with Google to empower 5,000 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Africa. Mrs Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, Head of Brand and Reputation, Google Sub-Sahara Africa, said this in a statement on Monday in Lagos. Aderemi-Makinde said that Google through the Hustle Academy would provide small businesses with training to assist them in packaging their businesses and obtaining the necessary funds to take them to the next level. She said that Google was thrilled to be collaborating with Sendy to give the much-needed assistance to MSMEs in Africa. According to her, SMEs are the backbone of the global economy, accounting for the majority of businesses in almost every region. She said that SMEs employ over 50 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa and contribute to the region’s Gross Domestic Product. Aderemi-Makinde said that the free weeklong online bootcamp targets to support 5,000 MSMEs by helping them scale and grow through positioning for investment, increasing revenue and building sustainable business for the future. Also speaking, Mr Mesh Alloys, the Founder/Chief Executive Officer, Sendy, said that the programme, seeks to provide MSMEs across Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa with expert training. Alloys said that the training would be on business strategy & development, digital marketing as well as financial planning. He said that the participants would be exposed to key industry leaders and master classes on business to help create opportunities, boost business growth and job creation across the region. ”Through the programme, Sendy will provide fulfillment and logistics support for the participating businesses. “It will also offer one-on-one mentorship so as to enable the participants learn, and build capacity to operate successful businesses. “The Google Hustle Academy is a noble idea that clearly speaks to our mission and aligns to our purpose. “We recognise the significant role played by small and medium businesses in the economy. We are also aware of the vast challenges they face. “We want to empower them by enabling them to trade efficiently and effectively. “Through this partnership with Google, we hope to unlock their potential so that they can learn and seize existing opportunities to build sustainable businesses,” Alloys said. He said that the programme also seeks to empower MSMEs to learn how to identify new markets, access funding opportunities and pitch for success.