Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti, on Monday swore-in 14 Permanent Secretaries with a call to them to ensure enhancement of human capacity in tackling 21st-century challenges. Fayemi said public service currently requires competent administrators that are well equipped in responding to contemporary challenges confronting the world and the nation. He said his administration had always embraced merit-based appointment to ensure a competent and robust human resources architecture. According to him, this is a development that would bring multiple perspective to the public service and ensure professionalism. The Governor disclosed that the permanent secretaries were appointed based on their track record of performance, skills and characters. “This was done with the hope that they would continue to provide mentorship and good examples to junior officers in sustaining the practices and legacies of public service,” he said. Fayemi disclosed that in less than four years of his administration, 42 permanent secretaries, two auditors general, 10 general managers, one surveyor general and 31 executive secretaries had been appointed into the state public service. He said he had approved the appointment of long-serving temporary officers in the broadcasting service of the state as well as implemented the financial benefit of the 2017 and 2018 promotions. Fayemi said the resort center at the State Secretariat complex and newly-renovated public service commission building have been completed and ready for both commissioning and use. He charged the newly sworn-in permanent secretaries to justify the confidence reposed in them by upholding the rules and principles guiding the ethos of public service and as well remain committed in implementing the people oriented policies initiated by his administration. ”I will now wish to congratulate the newly-appointed Permanent secretary for being found worthy of this high position in the service. “I have no doubt that your antecedents in the public service have paved the way for you to be worthy of your new elevation and I enjoin you to see the appointment as a call to dedicate yourself even more in service of our dear Ekiti State. “Your attainment of leadership status in your chosen career is not just about title. It requires vision, selflessness, more hard work, and more commitment. “As a responsive government, let me intimate you that we will continue to fulfil our pledges to the civil service. “This government will continue to enhance the capacity of our public institutions and accord the welfare of our workers utmost priority within our limited resources,” Fayemi added. The newly-inaugurated permanent secretaries included Engr. Johnson Adeola; Mrs Taiwo Akinbolawa; Mr Babatunde Adesola; Mrs Omotola Faseluka; Mr Tajudeen Adejumo; and Mr Emmanuel Jegede. Others are Mr Oluwadare Jolumo; Mrs Oyeyemi Kayode-Ojo; Mrs Mercy Adaran; Dr Olasunkanmi Alabi; Mr Michael Omolayo; Mr Adeyinka Arogundade; Mr Aderemi Ogunsemoyin and Mrs Olusola Adeluyi-Femi.