The Oyo State government has announced the cancellation of six years waiting period for teachers on Grade level 13-16, to be at par with their colleagues in the mainstream service. According to a statement made available to our correspondent in Ibadan on Thursday by the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board Dr Nureni Adeniran, the waiting period has been abolished. He said it was necessitated by the fact that the welfare of teachers and stakeholders in the education sector was paramount to the governor. Adeniran, however, applauded Gov. Seyi Makinde’s investment in laudable projects, which in turn enhanced effective learning, and quality academic activities. He stressed that the board and other educational bodies in the state were committed to learners’ gradual improvement and performance. Adeniran reiterated the commitment of the present administration to sustain its drive for quality education in the state. Meanwhile, Mr Rahman Abdu-Raheem, the Commissioner for Education, Science, and Technology, said the government commenced the distribution of exercise books to students in public secondary schools and technical colleges for the 2021/2022 academic session. The commissioner said this was another forward leap in the history of education in the state, as it would assist parents in reducing the cost of education for their children. Abdu-Raheem noted that in spite of the COVID-19 pandemic, Makinde had invested much funds in personnel, and educational materials from the Oyo Education Trust Fund, to bring greater development to the sector. Applauding the government’s gesture towards his colleagues, the Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, Mr. Raji Ismael, said the union appreciated the current administration in Oyo State. He noted that the administration had improved the lives of teachers in so many ways. Raji said Makinde had surpassed past administrations, pointing at the recently approved leave grant for teachers, which would be released very soon. “We are joyous because the approval of promotion letters to grade level 13-16 of teachers has been a clog in the wheels of progress in our profession. “Gov. Makinde has done what others could not do. The waiting period for teachers has been removed. Instead of six years, we henceforth will wait for three years,” he said.