UK-supported governance programme, Partnership to Engage, Reform and Learn (PERL), is supporting the development of mobile application to track procurement processes at local government levels in Kaduna State. The application is being developed in collaboration with the Kaduna Local Government Accountability Mechanism (LGAM), a permanent dialogue mechanism between government and citizens around developments at local level. PERL’s State Partnership Facilitator, Mr Istifanus Akau, explained at a one-day technical session with stakeholders to adapt the tool in Kaduna on Thursday, that the measure was to improve efficiency of tracking processes. Akau explained that the Application was an innovative way for citizens to effectively engage the local government procurement process, track and monitor implementation of projects. He said that the mobile application, if well utilised, would entrench the needed transparency and accountability in the delivery of projects at local government areas (LGAs), and would ensure value for money. He said that PERL would continue to support citizens to actively participate in the governance process at all levels for ownership and sustainability. Earlier, Mr Yusuf Goje of LGAM, said that the objective of the technical session was to develop and adopt the procurement tracking for partners, and a work plan for tracking procurement and share findings. Goje added that the meeting was also to brainstorm on strategies and next step for effective deployment of the App for tracking compliance in the procurement processes. According to him, 70 per cent of corruption in the country happens at the procurement level, adding that citizens did not have to wait until public fund was stolen before they raised alarm. He said citizens needed to commence tracking public funds at the procurement stage up to the implementation level. “This will ensure quality delivery according to specification and timeline, with a view to getting value for money, and improving quality of life of the citizens. “To achieve this, we need to monitor the implementation of development plans, participate in budgetary preparation and implementation, and assesses the delivery and performance of government projects.” Mr Moses Jeremiah, Digital Product Designer, Ihifix Technologies, who took the participants through the app, explained that the platform would automate the Community Development Charter and monitoring of procurement processes. Jeremiah explained that the tool had different access to different users, based on specific roles and needs – uploading of data, download and data analysis to serve the interest of both government and citizens. Earlier, the State Lead Facilitator, PERL, Mr Adejor Abel, said that the App would enable citizens from any part of the state to track and upload findings on the platform. Abel said that the App was particularly designed to accommodate all sectors and citizens groups that worked in the sectors, to engage the procurement processes and project delivery.