Info Digital Africa (ID Africa), owners of Nigerian Entertainment Today (Netng) and People’s Choice Awards, have announced the nominees for the sixth edition of the awards. Multi-award-winning artistes, Wizkid and Simi lead the pack of NET Honours Class of 2022 nominees with four nominations each. This was disclosed by Femi Falodun, the Chief Executive Officer, ID Africa, in a statement on Thursday in Lagos. Falodun said that this year’s edition would feature 35 categories, including 15 new voting categories that will give fans more power to choose their favourite celebrities for the awards. He said Netng initiated NET Honours to recognise and celebrate Nigerians’ favourite celebrities and public figures who had contributed to shaping the most exciting pop culture topics and events in the year under review. “Wizkid earned nominations for Most Popular Music Artiste (Male), Most Searched Music Artiste (Male), Most Popular Fandom (Music), and Most Watched Video. “Simi earned nominations for the Most Popular Musician (Female), Most Searched Musician (Female), Most Popular Fandom (Music), and Most Popular Couple, making her the most-nominated artiste for the second time in two seasons after her impressive six nods in 2021. “Davido and Burna Boy, who, like Wizkid, have also maintained an impressive grip on the global music space in the year under review, got three nominations each in the Most Popular Music Artiste (Male), Most Searched Music Artiste (Male); and Most Popular Fandom (Music) categories. “Other notable nominations include Mr Macaroni, Sabinus, Kiekie, Taaooma, and Broda Shaggi, who secured two nominations each for Most Popular Comedian and Most Popular Social Content Creator,” he said. Falodun said NET Honours, a verified audience data-based awards, debuted in 2013 as a special recognition award presented to deserving individuals in the Nigerian entertainment industry during the Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NECLive). He said in 2016, it evolved into NET Honours People’s Choice Awards, then in 2020, due to the pandemic, the awards went virtual, reaching over 10 million people worldwide. “NET Honours provides useful data on popular culture trends and the interests of urban youth in Africa. “The platform is a valuable source of insights for brands, organisations and governments that are trying to understand young Africans and their digital media consumption habits,” he said. Falodun noted that NET Honours had introduced 15 new voting categories for the first time in six years. He said online voting for the 15 new categories would commence at 7.00 pm WAT on thenet.ng/honours, and will end by midnight on June 28. According to him, winners will be announced on July 1 on Netng website and social media platforms. 