MTN Group has released the second instalment of its refresh brand, tagged the ‘Voice’ brand film, inspiring everyone that their voice mattered. The brand highlighted how a simple ingredient of life, such as voice, could  impact and change the way people saw  the world, and inspired progress. The Group Executive, Marketing, MTN Group, Ms Bernice Samuels, stated this in a statement on Wednesday in Lagos. Samuels said the campaign “What are we doing today?” was driven by the insight that all progress came from action. She said the energy and optimism of Africa’s people together with MTN’s commitment to enabling Africa’s digital progress, would contribute to the progress of consumers, countries and ultimately, the African continent. “Africa is a continent with significant potential and MTN is intent in playing its part in harnessing this potential by bringing relevant solutions to consumers that enable digital and financial inclusion and help them progress in their daily lives. “Africa’s youth are at the core of this potential and progress, and our brand refresh centres on them as they hold the future in their hands. “With the ‘Voice’ brand film, we hope to inspire in them that their voices matter, and to use the power of their voice to impact positive change and advance the progress of everyone on the continent, ”she said. She said that MTN Group had partnered with TBTM Studios to sponsor Season 3 of the ‘The Mic: Africa’, an interactive talent search programme aimed at empowering and uncovering talented youth across the continent as an extension of the release of the ‘Voice’ brand film. “This production is an embodiment of MTN’s commitment to finding and giving “do-ers” from across Africa an opportunity to use their voice to respond to the invitation of” What are we doing today?. “The public will be able to view The Mic: Africa on the Premium Free TV app via ayoba Superapp. “MTN is looking forward to revealing the details of the involvement and association with this exciting production in the next few weeks,” she said. Our correspondent reports that MTN launched its new logo and brand campaign in February. It reports that the campaign is to anchor its strategy, Ambition 2025, to build digital solutions that enable Africa’s progress across the telecom, fintech, infrastructure and messaging ecosystem. 