Mr Yabagi Sani, Presidential Candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), has picked Pastor Okey Udo, as his running mate for the 2023 general elections. Sani, also National chairman, ADP said this at a ceremony on Thursday in Abuja. “We are here to witness the performance of a ceremony highlighting the ADP’s fulfilment of a constitutional requirement which makes it mandatory for presidential and governorship candidates to be paired with running mates. “From among the many eminently qualified members of the party, Pastor Okey Udo was unanimously chosen by all in the selection panel in recognition of his outstanding qualities. “His track record of dedicated and selfless commitment to the party over the years and with the comportment and dispositions of someone who lives true to his calling as a Cleric. “Pastor Okey Udo, also as the National Treasurer of the party, has the uncommon traits of prudence, probity and honesty in the management of the finances and other assets in his custody,” he said. Sani added:“Especially in a climate where brazen corruption and mindlessness looting of the nation’s treasury have become endemic. “Nigerians of his discipline and integrity have become rare and precious commodity to be treasured, encouraged and elevated to positions of leadership.” Speaking, Udo expressed joy at the development. “I am profoundly thankful to the good Lord for finding me fit and suitable to be bestowed with the privilege and honour to serve as the Vice Presidential candidate of our great party in the nation’s 2023 general elections. “For recognising and singling me out of the multitude of options available, I thank very immensely our indefatigable, visionary, dynamic and motivational leader, the National Chairman and the Presidential standard bearer of our party. “I have come a long way, working under your able leadership in our chosen project of building a credible political vanguard based on the genuine foundation of democracy, national integration, unity, peace, security, stability and prosperity of our beloved country. “And having worked at close range with you for as long as all these years, I promise to deliver on my mandate as Vice President when elected,” he said. He thanked the party National Working Committee and the National Executive Committee for the love and confidence shown by unanimously supporting his selection as the presidential running mate. 