The Police Command in Oyo state has said that none of its officers had shot at a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member in Ibadan. The command described the information as a mischievous and fictitious imagination of mischief agents. It dispelled the rumour in a statement by its Public Relations Officer, DSP Adewale Osifeso, on Friday, in Ibadan. It would be recalled that there was news making the rounds in Ibadan on Thursday that a police officer shot at a corps member while returning from his Community Development Service (CDS). Osifeso quoted some preliminary investigations and independent witness accounts to corroborate the rebuttal. ”A reckless driving corps member, in company of his colleagues while returning from their CDS, in a white tinted Toyota Camry with Reg. No ABY 237 JR, was flagged down by operatives on legitimate stop and search duties along Black Horse Area, New Garage, Off Ibadan-Ijebu-Ode Road. ”The corps member, however, drove directly towards the officers and knocked down, one Sgt. Agbadahun Bright,” he added. The PPRO said that the corps member, in his determination to escape, ”drove off without batting an eyelid and veered off his lane towards the direction of other incoming vehicles,” till he ran into a tricycle from where the policemen caught up with him. “On sighting his returning colleagues from their various Community Development Service groups, he immediately raised a false alarm about being shot at by the Police officers. ”Thus, inciting the now riotous corps members to completely cut off the flow of traffic by blocking the road and other adjoining routes, before proceeding to attack any officer in sight. “Assertively, no shot was fired at the scene by any officer(s) before or after the incident at the corps member or his vehicle, rather the riotous corps members smashed the side mirrors of the officer’s operational vehicle, broke its windscreen and deflated all its tyres. “The riotous corps members then pounced on Sgt. Agbadahun Bright and stabbed his right cheek with a sharp object. “The officer was immediately rescued by a swift police reinforcement and he is presently receiving medical attention,” Osifeso said. Osifeso further said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Ngozi Onadeko, had said that officers of the command would remain civil and professional in the discharge of their duties. He added: ”but would no longer condone acts of hostility from members of the public.” Osisefo said that further investigations were ongoing and updates would be provided on the matter in due course.