The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) said it would support Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) as part of efforts to improve the country’s economy. Mr Emeka Offor, Acting Executive Secretary, of NIPC said this at a meeting between the commission and the World International Economic Group (WIEG) in Abuja. This is contained in a statement signed by Prof. Chris Nwanne, WIEG President Nigeria and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday. Our correspondent reports that  Offor was represented by Hajiya Gana Wakil, Director, NIPC’s Investment Relations. “As you know population here is the market for investment while we are here projecting the market for the future, coming to NIPC is the right direction. “If all your projections are accomplished, we are due on our target for the year, we will work with you,” he said. According to Offor, the commission will set up a committee that will interface with WIEG team to actualise its drive. He assured of the commission’s determination to partner with the investors to achieve their desired development in Nwanne said that Nigeria had captured the group’s attention, adding that WIEG would be in the country by June. “We have created confidence in WIEG global leadership that has stimulated the group’s headquarters and the world council’s decision to come to Nigeria “The group is much ready for the investment to take off as well as urge the commission to fast track the process and all activities. “WIEG Nigeria will enable Nigeria to be part of this window of opportunity to control market failures and improve its business environment for business men and entrepreneurs,” he said. Amb. Chuks Alozie, Country Director Inter-Governmental Affairs, said the main objective of the meeting was in continuation of the group’s contact with the commission, ministries and other agencies. “We consider this meeting extremely strategic as it will be helpful in moderating all the procedures of the Investors visit,” he said. According to Alozie, the organisation has had series of interaction with NIPC on how best to collaborate with it in fulfillment of its mandate of wooing investors. “We have the mandate to make this visit possible on June and the partnership with NIPC is very germane to the overall success of the process. “Considering that we have limited time to prepare, coming here is to get guidance and necessary support for the WIEG investor’s take- off so that Nigeria won’t be left out,” he said. Our correspondent reports that the World International Economic Group (WIEG) is a composition of various entrepreneurs and industrialists for development of the economy.