Airtel Nigeria and Konga, an e-commerce platform, on Thursday signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to deepen the digital and online retail landscape in the country. Our correspondent reports that the MoU was signed at the Airtel headquarters in Lagos. The Airtel Chief Commercial Officer, Mr Godfrey Efeurhobo, said that the MoU would further demonstrate commitment of the telecommunication company toward providing opportunities and partnerships. Efeurhobo said it was an important step to make online and offline offerings more accessible and affordable for everybody. “The MoU with Konga is important to us because it demonstrates our commitment to create opportunities and partnerships that will enrich the lives of our customers and empower them to fulfill their full potentials. “The occasion is also significant as it offers our resolve to make life better, enjoyable and fun for our over 50 million customers as we connect them to places, services, offerings, people and opportunities that can transform their lives. “Our overreaching agenda is transforming lives and enabling digital and financial inclusion, while the partnerships with Konga is important in making online and offline services affordable. “We are building quality as well as pioneering and inspiring a new way that will position us as the preferred partner in everything digital, e-commerce, entertainment, lifestyle, entrepreneurship and sports,” he said. The chief commercial officer said that Airtel was excited to partner with Konga on the journey that would create more value and opportunities for its customers. He noted that Konga e-commerce platform offered plethora of services targeted at simplifying everyday experiences for customers and merchants which aligned with Airtel’s philosophy of connecting and empowering customers. “This partnerships means our customers will always get the best deals at their fingertips and deliver to their doorstep, regardless of location in a manner that is accessible and affordable,” he said. The Konga Chief Executive Officer, Mr Nick Imudia, said that the MoU was one of the company’s strategic partnerships aimed at creating a viable e-commerce ecosystem. “This is one of the most strategic partnerships in which we believe will create an ecosystem where millions of customers can have access to our products. “We believe that we are the e-commerce guru, and Konga as an indigenous company will be giving strong offerings to customers,” Imudia said. He said that the MoU would expose all their products and services to a wider range of consumers as they are waiting for the opportunity to showcase what they have to the world. The Managing Director, Airtel Nigeria, Mr Chemmenkotil Surendran, added that the telecommunication company would strive more to provide for the needs of its teeming consumers.