The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has assured Nigerians that no State of the Federation will be left out in the ongoing infrastructural revolution of the current administration. The group said President Muhammadu Buhari is poised to bring about equal opportunities and even development to all parts of the country and diversify the nation’s economy to ease the country of the burden of dependence on crude oil as its sole source of revenue. BMO made this assertion following the inauguration of a 120-bed capacity hospital for mothers and children in Makurdi, Benue by President Muhammadu Buhari. The fully equipped hospital was built by the Federal Government under the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) initiative. In a statement signed by the group’s Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO said the ‘Mother and Child’ hospital would go a long way to strengthen existing health facilities in the State and expand deliverables the administration is trying to bring about in infrastructural development and other areas of the nation’s economy. BMO said the new fully equipped hospital would afford the people of Benue State the opportunity, particularly the lees privileged mothers and children, to access efficient and quality medical care which will, in turn, improve the people’s living conditions and save many lives. “We believe that the new 120-bed ‘Mother and Child’ hospital will go a long way to strengthen good antenatal care, prevent unwanted pregnancies and other post-delivery complications. “Besides caring and providing for sick children in emergencies and chronic settings, the hospital will contribute in essential ways to primary care and wellness, to all kinds of prevention, including child abuse and many more”. According to the statement, Buhari’s administration is committed to working with various stakeholders in the health sector to close the country’s infrastructural gap and ensure that essential facilities are provided to meet the needs of the people. BMO, urged the Benue State Government and its citizens to make judicious use of the hospital and facilities provided in such a way to benefit mothers and children who are the primary beneficiaries and also charged the management of the hospital to put in place a viable and robust maintenance arrangement to keep the hospital running and in good shape. Other Federal Government projects in Benue State include 19 projects in the education sector, seven projects in water and sanitation and four infrastructures; two in clean and affordable energy. BMO assured Nigerians that the Buhari administration will continue to provide more infrastructures to ease the pains of the people and that all the ongoing critical infrastructural projects being undertaken by the Buhari administration across all sectors would be completed and commissioned before the end of his tenure in 2023. The group reminded Nigerians that despite limited resources accrued to the Buhari administration as compared to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with huge resources from crude oil sales windfall, the regime has been able to record more achievements in its almost seven years in office in all areas of the economy