A trader, Mrs Loveth Barrold, on Tuesday told an Igando Customary Court to dissolve her marriage over allegations of threat to life and battering by her husband. Loveth said that her husband, , Chukwuka, had abandoned her for more than  two years. “Since he travelled to village some years back, he changed totally and started returning late,” she said. Loveth told the court that sometimes, Chukwuka would not return home for weeks. “He came up with plans to travel with his daughter and I told him it was not wise but he insisted and I obliged him. “Few days after, he called me to tell me that there was unrest in the village and policemen were arresting young men around. He told me to send transport fare  to him. “I gathered all I had and sent to him and he came back with my daughter and that was the beginning of the whole issue between us,” she submitted. According to her, Chukwuka  met a strange woman in a bus while returning. “They started a relationship. When I noticed that a particular number always called him, I became suspicious and was right. She was the one making my husband to act nonchalantly toward me, his daughter and the entire home front. “I reported to his family members, who intervened, but my husband refused to change, and each time I mentioned the issue of this woman, he would beat me and throw my belongings out. “Severally, he has threatened to kill me, he even attacked me spiritually; you can see the scar on my leg. I was unable to walk for months. “On a particular occasion, a mad woman came to my shop to harass me, saying  I should give her the dowry paid on my head. “I ran inside and sent my neighbours to help me and give her money, but this woman refused to collect it from them. She insisted it must be from me. “I had to collect the money from my friends to give her, and she left.” The petitioner also said that Chukwuka occasionally came to her shop to  ask for a refund of his dowry. “I promised him I would give him,” she said, adding that Chukwuka lacked care for her and her their daughter. Responding, Chukwuka, a technician, told the court that he was not beating Loveth although they were quarreling. He said  each time he returned home late, his wife would start a quarrel. “Truly, I leave home for days but it is not because of a woman but work. “It is also not true that I don’t drop money for upkeep. I usually drop money when I’m leaving home. I have never failed in that. “I also did not send her packing, she was the one that left the house voluntarily,” he said. Chukwuka told the court that he still loved Loveth “ but if she insists on a divorce, I won’t force her”. “I do not want the dowry, she can keep it because I still love her and because of our daughter. The President of the court, Mr Koledoye Adeniyi, adjourned the case until April 7 for judgment.