A student of Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) and a businessman were on Monday brought before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for alleged forgery. The two are being tried for forging the school’s letterhead and the registrar’s signature. The defendants are: Yusuf Ayoola, 49 and Feyisara Otubambo, 20. They are facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, breach of peace and forgery. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The prosecutor, Insp Modupe Olaluwoye, told the court that the defendants committed the offences on Dec. 11, 2021 in YABATECH premises. She said that the first defendant owned a cyber cafe located in the school premises, while the second defendant was a student who had just finished her diploma programme and awaiting her certificate. According to the prosecutor, the second defendant paid the first defendant to forge a “To Whom It May Concern” letter on her behalf. Olaluwoye said that the letter was meant to be given by the school to indicate that the student had completed her diploma programme and awaiting her certificate. She stated that the first defendant forged the school’s letterhead and the registrar’s signature and issued the letter to the second defendant. She said the offences contravened sections 411, 168 (d) and 363(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Our correspondent reports that Section 365 (1) prescribes a three-year jail term for forgery, while Section 411 provides two years imprisonment for conspiracy. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Linda Balogun, admitted the first defendant to a bail of N500, 000 with two sureties in like sum and granted the second defendant N200, 000 bail with one surety. She directed that the sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction with an evidence of tax payment to Lagos State Government. Balogun held that the sureties must also submit copies of their National Identification Number (NIN) and Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) to the court. She further ordered the second defendant to submit her international passport to the court. Balogun adjourned the case until April 13 for mention.