Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a group, under the auspices of “No Alternative to Tinubu 2023,” has endorsed the former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for president. National Coordinator of the group, Mr Vincent Uba, in a statement on Monday in Abuja, described Tinubu as “a religious tolerant and a man who was well-positioned to rule Nigeria because of his credentials.” He said he was sure that if elected, Tinubu would lay a solid foundation for generations yet unborn, just as he laid an enduring solid foundation for the modern Lagos. Uba, who said that the name of his group was changed from “No Alternative to Buhari-Osinbajo 2019” to “No Alternative to Tinubu 2023,” said his members worked assiduously for the re-election of President Mohammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in the 2019 general elections. He said that he was happy to have backed the duo, while thanking God for blessing Nigeria with the two great personalities. “President Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo not only prudently managed the scarce resources of our country but also put in place infrastructure that are second to none, in comparison with the previous administrations. “Now that President Buhari’s administration is coming to an end, there is the compelling need to look for and pray for someone that will not only carry on with the good legacies but also begin to build and improve on them. “We, No Alternative to Buhari-Osinbajo 2019, having critically observed and examined the state of the nation as it affects religious, ethnic and leadership issues, decided to go for the man who the cap fits to tackle the above mentioned national problems. “Looking at the array of persons aspiring for the presidency of this country in 2023, the only person, out of the lots who has the trappings and or paraphernalia to handle the affairs of the country is no other person than Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Yes, there is no alternative to Tinubu in 2023,” he said. Uba said Tinubu’s track record of empowering people across ethnic and religious boundaries stands out. He described the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as “a noble man who has the gift of sourcing for round pegs to put in round holes or square pegs in square holes.” “In the light of the above, No Alternative to Buhari-Osinbajo 2019 unequivocally not only endorses Tinubu for 2023 presidency of Nigeria, but also will put in place activities that will be geared towards supporting his campaigns. “Consequently, the No Alternative to Buhari-Osinbajo 2019 (NATBO 2019) will now be known and referred to as No Alternative to Tinubu 2023 (NATT 2023)”, he said. Our correspondent reports that Tinubu recently declared his intention to run for the office of the president come 2023 polls.