The Lagos State Government on Tuesday said it had embarked on Oracle system upgrade for effective service delivery in the public service. The state Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Samuel Egube, said this at the stakeholders engagement workshop for the Oracle system upgrade project organised by the  state Ministry of Science and Technology in partnership with Soft Alliance Nigeria Ltd. Egube noted that the fastest way to change work culture was by adoption of technology. The commissioner said that the upgrade was to create efficiency in the system for effective service delivery and to ensure that the level of transparency and accountability continues to improve. Egube added that no nation could have national development without transparency and accountability which technology like Oracle application offers. “We are doing extremely well, but we must take the standard a lot higher. “The government investment in the Oracle project is a process workflow of electronic and digital signature which digitalise movement and tracking of file at the real time. “We are expanding footprint of interaction between people of Lagos and government in various digital platforms we are working on like citizens’ gate, project performance management system and others,” he said. Earlier, Mrs Olayinka Fashola, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology, said that the state government system was undergoing digital transformation through the upgrade of its existing Oracle system and addition of new modules. She said that current transformation would change all manual and papers work in Lagos public service to electronic and online format. “Part of these transformations is that we are upgrading our human resources, financial and budgeting aspect of governance. “It will help in monitoring and compensation of staff based on services they render and their commitments,” she said. Fashola said that the ministry would continue to ensure data supply by users of the application remain encrypted and well protected against cyber attacks. Mr Bisi Aina, the Managing Director, Soft Alliance Ltd., the technical partner of the project, said that the state government was the first state in Nigeria to adopt Oracle application since year 2000. He said that the new upgrade was to have an all-in-one super software that would take care of the entire Lagos service delivery instead of single solution for each sector. He said that the application would be integrated with other innovation products in the market. It was reported that the new upgraded Oracle application would ensure seamless online leave application and management, self-service, e-payslip, online performance appraisal as well as time and attendance management.