Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo, on Thursday in Benin appealed to the Federal Government of Nigeria to rename federal college of education (Technical), Ekiadolor, after Tayo Akpata. Obaseki made the appeal during the official handing over of the defunct college of education (technical), Ekiadolor, to the federal college of education. Our correspondent reports that Tayo Akpata is a one-time former commissioner for education in the old mid-west. According to him, “The only thing we asked for is that this school should be named after our visionary commissioner for education, Tayo Akpata, who transformed our educational landscape. “The name of this school needs to reflect one of our great heroes who helped us to transform education in mid-west state as at that time. “For us Sir, we’re hoping that you will make this school a school of excellence to teach teachers in technical subjects. That is the reason we are willing to give the federal government this institution. “The federal government has been helping us through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) in developing some of these schools, so this federal college of education technical is going to help us in the revolution that we seek to achieve in our educational system in Edo,” he said. The governor assured that his administration will support the institution by provide security, road infrastructure and other facilities that will facilitate the development of the school. On his part, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, who was represented by the Executive Secretary, National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), Prof. Paulinus Okwelle, thanked all the relevant stakeholders who made the event a successful one. Adamu used the occasion to seek support from the Edo government in areas of security, funding, laboratory, scholarships to deserving students and capital projects knowing too well that it is a special college that involves machineries and the rest of them. In his contribution, the Chairman, Governing Council, Prof. Samuel Aduwa-Ogiegbaen, said that the college would help to prepare young men and women for the modern world of works and be self employed.