Rep. Shina Peller (APC-Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa) says Nigeria needs to develop a new and functional system to put the country back on track. Peller made this assertions at the fourth Oyo NUJ Ramadan Lecture/Iftar in Ibadan. It was reported that the Ramadan Lecture/Iftar is an annual programme sponsored by Peller. The lecture delivered by a renowned Islamic scholar, Sheikh Taofeek Akeugbagold, was entitled: “2023 Election and Youths Participation for National Development: The Islamic Perspectives”. Peller said it was time for Nigerians to understand that the country deserves a functional system toward rewriting the story of Nigeria. “Our system is currently going through myriads of problems affecting this country today; until we develop a new system, we can’t put Nigeria back on the right track. “This is not the time to get carried away by individual ambition or interest. “This is the time to work collectively with everybody that is interested in building a new Nigeria. “I will work with my party to ensure that we put into consideration the inclusiveness of women, youths and people with Disability,” he said. Akeugbagold, who spoke as the Guest Lecturer, called on youths in the country to rise up to their responsibilities. The Islamic cleric said that physical and mental capability matters most in leadership. “Enough of our youths sitting behind, they should come out to lead. The Almighty Allah doesn’t bar elderly ones from contesting. “The Almighty Allah doesn’t bar the elderly ones from contesting. The best thing to do is to let young ones be beside them. “We are begging, we are appealing that youths should be given 95 per cent of the positions in government,” he said. According to him, we need to bring our youths back, re-orientate them. Give them soft loans and connect them with companies. In his remarks, Mr Ademola Babalola, the State Chairman of NUJ, appreciated Peller for identifying with journalists and humanity. Babalola said he had been sponsoring the programme in the last five years. He said that essence of the lecture was to have a reflection on the teachings of Prophet Muhammed. “You remember that this is a time of insecurity and we are also matching toward the 2023 election. “Theme of the Ramadan lecture sponsored by Shina Peller is Harped on 2023 election and the need for youths to participate actively in national development,” Babalola said. “I believe this is a time for us to elect a young blood, who have the energy and capability to govern well, and capability to deliver on the mandate of their respective political party,” he said.