A renowned Geoscientist, Prof. Jimmy Adegoke, has called for collaboration between Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH), Okitipupa, Ondo State and University of Missouri, Kansas City (UMKC), United States of America. Adegoke, who lecturs at UMKC’s Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, made the call during a lecture at OAUSTECH’s main campus in Okitipupa on Thursday. Our correspondent reports that the event, with the theme: “Carnegie Foundation Supported Nigeria,” was entitled: “US University Linkage and Partnerships for Joint Research and Education.” According to Adegoke, such partnership will help OAUSTECH’s members of staff and students to benefit immensely from the scholarship and research opportunities available at the institution. He said that the partnership plan, under the Science-Technology-Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) arrangement, would give students necessary exposure to world-class laboratory and computational facilities. “Such partnership will enhance their technological competency and enable them to access scholarship called Dean International Students Award (DISA) worth $8,000 per annum. “International students, upon completing their degrees under the plan funded by grants from the Carnegie Corporation of New York (CCNY), are eligible for optional practical training work visa, with 36-month duration,” he said. The don also explained that the objectives and goals of the partnership plan, among others, were to grow current students’ enrolment by leveraging the university global footprint to offer innovative international training partnership with selected universities abroad. “This will also develop mutually-beneficial linked undergraduate and graduate (3+1+1 and 3+2+1) degree programmes to attract brilliant international students to complete their undergraduate degrees and post-graduate education at UMKC. “Students, who successfully complete both years, will receive BS and MS from UMKC and will still receive their first degree certificate from their mother university at home,” he added. The erudite scholar, who had attracted over $5 million in terms of research grants, also gave hints and ways of entering into research and academic collaboration with the U.S. university. He listed eligibility requirements for host institution and scholars as well as available areas of research collaborations. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor of OAUSTECH, Prof. Temi Ologunorisa, who facilitated the lecture, emphasised that for the university to go far and move up, it was imperative that it collaborated with leading scholars and universities across the globe. The vice-chancellor noted that the lecture was to fast track the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with University of Missouri for exchange programmes and research collaborations. “One of the best universities in U.S.A. is UMKC. We want to advance learning and research in OAUSTECH and to make this a reality, it is a must that we collaborate with world-leading universities,” he said. Ologunorisa also said that part of his plans was to increase the number of schools in OAUSTECH from three to 10 before the expiration of his tenure in 2027. Our correspondent reports that Ologunorisa assumed office on Feb. 22 after the expiration of the five-year tenure of his predecessor, Prof. Sunday Ogunduyile. It was also reported that members of the academia, educationists and other stakeholders from within and outside the state attended the lecture and symposium.