Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC Ltd.) started its week on a positive note as its corporate service unit acquired ISO certifications in Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) and Quality Management System (QMS). The corporate service unit of the NNPC known as the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), acquired the certifications as part of its commitment to emplace automation and set global standards for the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. It also launched an Electronic Materials Management Solution (e-MMS), a platform aimed at enhancing synergy among operators in the upstream to save cost, enhance production and ensure process standardisation, industry-wide. Speaking at the event which held at the NNPC Towers, Abuja, Chairman, Board of Directors, NNPC Ltd, Sen. Margery Chuba-Okadigbo, said that the new NNPC was focused on strategic positioning that would enable it compete at global level. She pointed out that NAPIMS’ attainment of ISO certifications in BCMS and QMS further attests to the Company’s commitment to the principles of Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE) agenda. She stressed that automation of the system would reduce cost, ensure seamless cross-inventory exchange among industry players and encourage revenue-generation-auction system. In his remarks, the NNPC GMD/CEO, Malam Mele Kyari, stated that the company’s operation was experiencing massive disruption in the form of pipeline vandalism. He said that significant ISO certifications around NNPC’s businesses and e-MMS solution by NAPIMS should be able to respond positively through provision of containment measures to address the industry challenges. Kyari said that with current situations around the world, there was need for NNPC to take advantage of the abundant hydrocarbon resources of today to build energy of tomorrow. He emphasised that the NNPC would continue to give priority to gas development and utilisation in its journey of becoming an energy company of global excellence. Also speaking at the event, the Group Executive Director, Upstream, Mr Adokiye Tombomieye, pointed out that NNPC Upstream identified the processes of standardisation and digitisation as key elements required to achieve cost optimisation, production and national reserve aspirations. Tombomieye maintained that the Directorate would continue to emplace automation in line with industry’s best practices to eliminate the impact of discretion in decision-making processes. He stated that NAPIMS had become the first government-run organisation in West Africa to receive the ISO-22301:2019 certification for Business Continuity Management from RINA, Italy. Some of the industry stakeholders at the event, included the representative of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Famous Eseduwo, Director of Human Resources, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Mr Cosmas Iwueze who represented the Chairman of OPTS, Mr Rick Kennedy. The Executive Secretary of Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr Simbi Wabote, pledge their support for NNPC’s initiatives to move the oil and gas sector forward. Mr Bala Wunti, Group Managing Director of NAPIMS, said acquiring the certifications had become a means and not an end because the objective was to institutionalise best processes and standards to achieve cost efficiency and value creation for the benefit of Nigerians. He said the e-MMS solution provides a transparent exchange platform that leverages on data management to service the material assets need of players in the oil and gas business, adding that the milestones achieved in the areas of certification and automation were as a result of the functional collaboration and support from all stakeholders. The highpoint of the event was the virtual and physical presentation of the ISO certificates by the Managing Director, RINA, Mr Alessandro Momei, and Mr Richard Omale of the 3FM Solution, respectively.