The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Reconciliation Committee on Friday in Abuja, said it has resolved the crisis within the party’s Abia chapter. Sen. Adamu Abdullahi, Chairman of the committee and a former governor of Nasarawa State announced this while speaking with Journalists after a closed door meeting with critical stakeholders of the party in Abia. He said the meeting followed a petition received by the committee from Chief Ikechi Emenike, factional leader of Abia APC chapter. It would be recalled that at the Abia State Congresses in 2021, Emenike’s faction produced late Enyinnaya Harbor as the State Chairman, while the other faction produced Iheanacho Obioma as chairman. Abudulahi, however, said the committee had very useful discussion with the stakeholders even though the complainant was not at the meeting.
“We invited him (Emenike) and he refused to turn up. “He was duly invited, and from all indications, he has no case to put before us, and we have no hesitation whatsoever to listen to the delegation from Abia. “I don’t believe we could have any better representation in terms of the interest of the party, so we appreciate them,” Abudulahi said.
He expressed optimism that the outcome of the meeting would be positive. He assured them that the committee would submit its reports, including reports from other state chapters of the party to its leadership after putting them together. Abudulahi said the desire of the committee was to ensure that the crisis in Abia APC and other state chapters of the party became a thing of the past ahead of the 2023 general election. Chief Donatus Nwankpa, a former Abia APC Chairman in his remark, accused some of the party’s national leaders of masterminding the crisis in the state chapter. He stressed that the state chapter of APC would not allow any imposition of leadership in whatever guise. According to him, some persons at the party’s national secretariat have conspired to undermine the growth of the APC not just in Abia, but in the South-East. “You all are aware of the recent drama that happened in Anambra that is the picture of conspiracy that they want to put Abia and we are saying no to it. “You can’t beat a child and say the child should not complain, that is what we are here to tell them, you cannot impose leadership on Abia APC. “Abia APC runs on a collegiate system, which means leaders man their wards, this is the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The President is opposed to imposition of any leadership at any level, he wants the leadership to grow from the grassroots and that is why the APC is here today,” he said. Nwankpa expressed satisfaction with the deliberations and interrogations at the meeting, saying that:” we are convinced that they have seen the truth. “I don’t want to make a pronouncement, what I want to say is that they have seen the truth and the truth will set everybody free”. It was reported that the meeting was attended by: Pro-Chancellor and Chairman Federal University, Lokoja, Kogi, Sen. Chris Adighije, Sen. Nkechi Nwaogu, former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Chief Emeka Wogu. Others were Chief Alex Oti, Azubuko Udah, Dr Chida Maduekwe, Uzo Azubuike former Speaker Abia State House of Assembly, Mac Wabara, Stanley Ohajuruka, Nnanna Kalu and Nduka Anyanwu among others.