Some stakeholders in southeast Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday in Enugu endorsed Sen. Anyim Pius Anyim as the zone’s presidential candidate for the 2023 election. The stakeholders also demanded the zoning of the party’s presidential ticket to it. Party faithful who spoke at the Southeast zonal briefing and consultative session called and hosted by Anyim described him as a humble and experienced politician that could turn the country around. Former Governor of Abia, Sen. Theodore Orji, said Anyim had distinguished himself while serving the country in various capacities. Orji who was the chairman of the occasion said: “it will be nice for us all to push and support the candidature of Anyim given his wide experience in politics. “I greet and congratulate him for what he has done; stakeholders decided to support him as he presented himself formally,” he said. Speaking also, widow of Chief Tony Anenih, the former PDP Board of Trustees chairman, Iyom Josephine Anenih noted that Nigerians were looking toward PDP as power would shift in 2023. Anenih frowned at the notion that no Nigerian of southeast descent could be president, saying that if the country wanted to practice equity, fairness, the next president should come from the Southeast. According to her, leaders in Igbo land are now consulting and speaking with one voice. She added that other people from the zone would love to contest, but that they would be examined and the best brain among them would be selected and supported. Minority Leader in the Senate, Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe, said the occasion was a special moment for “Nd’igbo” and Nigeria at large. Abaribe noted that many other aspirants had showed interest in the same position in the Southeast, but that the Southeast caucus at the National Assembly would parley with them all. Earlier, Anyim said he was delighted that leaders from the zone honoured his invitation, stressing that Nigerians looked up to PDP to redeem the country, secure lives and property and create jobs. He said that Nigerians expected PDP to return to power, adding that the Zoning Committee set up by the party had resolved the issue of zoning amicably. “I have stood with PDP in good and bad times and I have never moved to other parties in spite of challenges. “I can be entrusted with the mission and vision of the party. I have been in the Legislature and in the Executive showing that I can undertake the task. “My presidency will ensure equity, fairness and inclusiveness and I have consulted governors of Enugu and Abia and other stakeholders on how to move the nation forward,” Anyim said. The former Senate President added that the responses received so far were overwhelming. He added that for equity and fairness, the Southeast should be given the opportunity to produce the next president. “I am aware that I am not the only aspirant from the zone, but I urge you to give our brothers same support given to me today. “We deserve a united Nigeria and inclusive government; I seek your support and cooperation with me,’’ he appealed. Some of the dignitaries at the event were senators, House of Representatives members, party chairmen and other party faithful from the zone. It was reported that Anyim was President of the Senate and Secretary to the Government of the Federation during former President Goodluck Jonathan’s presidency. Born in 1961, Anyim was elected senator on the platform of the PDP in 1999 for Ebonyi South Constituency and was elected Senate President in August 2000.