The Speaker, House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, on Sunday inaugurated 12 roads he facilitated in his Surulere I Federal Constituency in Lagos. Our correspondent reports that the roads, which were either reconstructed or rehabilitated included Odejayi Crescent, Olodeokuta Street, Ramos Street, Rosamond Street, Iponri Zone A-B Road, Mayday Road and Bishop Kaale Road. Others are Bishop Howell Road, Royal Estate Road, Eric Moore Towers Road, Mabo -Fashoro-Bishop link Road and Shodipe -Akobi-Owokoniran-Laniyan link Road. The speaker had on Dec. 30 inaugurated 13 inner roads, including Nathan Street, Jacob Street, Atan Street, Leigh Street, Jacob Street and Ajao Road. Gbajabiamila had urged the people around the delivered projects to take ownership of them so as to serve their purpose. “All these roads and other projects we are delivering are to make life better for our people in Surulere.” “So, I appeal to you to take ownership of these projects and not do anything that would compromise their structural integrity,” he said. Gbajabiamila said he was irrevocably committed to the welfare and wellbeing of his constituents, adding that he would continue to execute impactful projects in the area. Also, Mr Suleiman Yusuf, Chairman of Surulere Local Government Area, commended the speaker for construction of the roads and other projects he had facilitated in the area. Yusuf described Gbajabiamila as a true and worthy representative, who had impacted on many lives in Surulere. “Gbajabiamila has done so much for us in Surulere. Since he assumed office as the Speaker, Surulere has experienced a turn around with many lives touched.” “Over 120 roads have been completed by the speaker in this area and we are still counting.” “Apart from roads, he has executed so many other projects that are too numerous to mention, talk of hospitals, stadia, schools and so on.” “We thank the Speaker for all he has done and I want to appeal to our people in Surulere to continue to support him to do more,” he told our correspondent. Commenting, a community leader, Mrs Aduke Hussein, said that Gbajabiamila had touched many lives in the area. Hussein said many residents had benefitted from his empowerment programmes and many projects he had executed. “He is a God-sent to the people of Surulere. He has touched many lives since he was elected as a representative of this area.” “We thank him and we pray that God would continue to guide him to further touch more lives in Surulere,” she said