Sen Abdulaziz Yari, a former two term governor of Zamfara and a frontline All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairmanship aspirant says his party membership card is still valid. Yari was reacting to reports in the social media that he did not have a valid party membership card in a statement issued by Alhaji Abdullahi Tsare, his Chief of Staff on Thursday in Abuja. According to him, my APC party membership card is valid and intact. “Ordinarily, I would not like to join issues, but for the consumption of our great party members and the general public, I have to set the records straight.” “For the avoidance of doubt, His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari is a party man to the core with great qualifications at his disposal; he is a registered member of the APC with his membership Card obtained by him.” “He is the only known chairmanship aspirant coming from Zamfara in particular, and the North West geo-political zone.” “The party and general public should disregard any noise maker claiming to be an aspirant under the umbrella of APC,”he said. Tsare said those alleging that Yari did not have a valid party membership card were “nuisance and disgruntled elements working for their pay masters who could not face Yari one on one”. He wondered where such persons were when Yari contested elections from a state party secretary to the exalted office of a governor of the state for two terms. He, therefore, urged the public to ignore the report, describing it as “a chanting of an errand boy who will stop at nothing than to cause confusion in the public”. Tsare said the intention of those peddling the report was to mislead his teeming supporters and to further attract large sum from their pay masters. “If not, why should anybody explain to the public that someone who was a governor for two terms, did not have membership registration card of the party he worked so tirelessly to form.” “His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari has paid his dues in the party and he is a well known financier of the APC. He will continue to do his best until the party attains victory.” “Yari, being a tested administrator, is committed to ensure that the party’s principles are adhered to strictly, beginning from how the secretariat will be run. The party will certainly take centre stage,”he said. Tsare added that with his political expirence and network, Yari was committed to deploy his skills to draw influential persons into the party and close ranks with existing leaders within its fold for its overall progress. He further added that Yari had done so much to build the APC and was still doing more to uplift the party to greater heights. He urged the Gov. Mai Mala Buni- led APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) to be more circumspect in its dealings with some of those aspiring to be the party’s national chairman. The spokesperson added that well meaning party member were expected to preach peace and unity at this critical period of the party’s history. According to him, all faithful members of the party should be committed to ensuring peace and unity within its fold with a view to going into the 2023 general elections as a united front. “It is therefore not a period for self-destruction and internal bickering and rumour mongering among party members.” “The APC is a party of disciplined people with high sense of patriotism, and therefore Abdulaziz Yari will not in any way share issues,” he Tsare said.