Journalists from all spheres of the media recently converged at the New Biopath Medical Laboratory located at No 175, Ikorodu Road Before Awoyokun Bus-Stop, Lagos Nigeria for a press briefing heralding the official opening of the Ikorodu Road Branch of the Foremost Medical Laboratory in Nigeria.  Biopath Medical Laboratory, established in a one room apartment in 2014, is an accredited diagnostic and screening center licensed by the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN) to carry out routine and specialized laboratory investigations. The Official Opening was interspersed with the  sensitization of the Nigerian populace on the establishment of a quality and well-equipped medical laboratory and business partnerships with reputable affiliated laboratories within the 36 states of the federation. Whilst fielding questions from Journalists, Chief Executive Officer of the Organisation Dr. Raymond Osho, a graduate of the Lagos Business School noted that the new Branch was opened in order to bring Medical Laboratory Services closer to the people. ‘It is quite unfortunate that many Nigerian lives are put on danger for the absence of state-of-art Medical facilities. Sadly enough, many lives are lost within the lacuna of medical consultations, examinations, diagnoses, prescriptions and treatment”. He stated further that Biopath Medical Laboratory, which was founded in 2014, is one of the few but highly rated Diagnostic Agencies in Nigeria that are running on sophisticated medical equipment. The Laboratory is renown for its great reliability, expediency, integrity and accuracy. He maintained that the ultimate dream of the Organisation is to move from a Second Tier to a First Tier Laboratory. According to a member of the BIOPATH Team, the Business Development Officer maintained that tests & screening exercises are carried out at affordable rates at the Laboratory while they also offer HMO Consulting Services to private individuals & corporate organisations. She submitted that the organisation has the capacity to conduct tests from any State across the Nation. Amongst the Dignitaries at the event were the Chairman of the Organisation, Mr. Femi Olatide & the Group Managing Director, Dr. Peter Akindeju.