Sen. Istifanus Gyang (PDP/Plateau North) on Saturday in Jos, distributed 73 motorcycles to volatile communities to curtail attacks in the areas. Gyang said that the motorcycles would assist community members to reach to one another in difficult terrains. The lawmaker said that motorcycles would also help them reach out to security agencies for help whenever the need arises. “The motorcycles are to empower the communities to quickly mobilise the people in terms of security mobilisation and information system management. “It is also for them to coordinate activities at that level as part of security management at the ward level. “The initiative is part of our objective to bring peace to Plateau North. It is for them to quickly serve as liaison with security agencies at ward levels,” he said. On assorted relief materials distributed to victims of attacks, Gyang said that he wrote the National Emergency Management Management Agency (NEMA) and requested for assistance for communities that were attacked and displaced. The senator said that NEMA responded and donated assorted relief materials for victims who were in three local governments of Barkin Ladi, Bassa and Riyom. He commended the NEMA for the coming to the aid of the people who were in dire need of assistance as their sources of livelihood were destroyed by the attackers. He appealed for the understanding of the victims as the materials might not be enough. “It is better to get small than get nothing,” he said. Mrs Judith Bai, who represented the North Central Coordinator of NEMA said that the gesture was in response to Gyang’s request to the federal government through the agency. “You will recall the destruction of crops on several farms covering hectares of land in local government areas of B/Ladi, Riyom and lrigwe Chiefdom in Bassa all in Plateau North Senatorial District. “The NEMA North Central Zonal Office conducted an assessment to determine the extent of damage and the level of federal government’s assistance required. “Based on the report of this assessment, relief materials have been approved as federal government’s support to the affected persons. “They include; 500 bags of 10kg rice, 500 bags of 10kg beans, 500 bags of 10kg garri, 150 kegs of vegetable oil (20litres), 150 cartons of tin tomato (24/48) and 150 kegs of palm oil (20litres) “Other items are 150 cartons of seasoning cubes, 100 bags of (20kg) iodized salt, 200 cartons of (500g) milo, 200 cartons of (350g) powdered milk  and 200 bags of (20kg) granulated sugar “The approved materials will be distributed directly to the affected persons by NEMA,” she added. The Chairman of People’s Democratic Party in Plateau, Mr Chris Hassan, commended Gyang for assisting constituents with motorcycles and assorted food materials. Hassan said that the initiative was rare as many representatives usually forget those that elected them. The party chairman stated the party would work hard in 2023 to win the three senatorial seats in the state instead of the one that they currently have in the state.