Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos says building a world class health system is a priority of his administration.  Sanwo-Olu said this on Friday in Lagos during the Y2021 Health Forum with the theme, “The Art of Building a World Class Health System.” It was reported that the programme was organised by the Lagos State Government in collaboration with the State Health Service Commission (HSC). Sanwo-Olu, represented by Mrs Folasade Jaji, Secretary to the State Government, noted that establishing a robust health system would complement the status of a mega city and 21st century economy desired for the state. He said that the development of the health sector to adequately cater to the health needs of the people effectively and efficiently had been a priority of his administration, as expressed in the THEMES agenda. According to him, achieving this goal will entail enhancing the delivery capacity of all health facilities at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. He said it also entailed availability of modern health equipment, qualified and motivated health personnel, as well as providing a conducive environment for private sector participation in the health sector. The governor said his administration continued to show commitment through recruitment of competent health workers, skill enhancing and capacity building in essential areas of healthcare service, improved welfare and facilities upgrade. “As a government, we will continue to play the role expected of us to build a world class health system that will not only curb medical tourism outside the country, but also improve the potential of earning foreign exchange from foreigners seeking medical care in our health facilities,” he said. Sanwo-Olu commended the health workers for their courage, passion and dedication in saving lives, especially during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. “As critical stakeholders in the health sector, I call on you to continue to put in your best efforts at all times and in all situations so that together we can build a sustainable, efficient and effective healthcare system for all Lagosians,” he said. Also, Prof. Akin Abayomi, the Commissioner for Health, said that the state was working on developing specialist facilities within the general hospitals. “What we need to do is develop those specialist capabilities in Lagos and make Lagos a renowned destination of expertise in any discipline of health care,” he said. He said that the government’s approach to transform the health sector would not focus on the development of the public health facilities alone. Abayomi said that the state would set a benchmark, standard and regulatory framework to ensure that the private health sector was also practising according to international best practices. The commissioner advised the HSC to evolve strategy that would make Lagos the centre of health delivery for specialist healthcare. Similarly, Dr Leke Pitan, former Lagos State Commissioner for Health, advised the state to deepen public-private partnership, noting that it was the sustainable pathway to develop the health sector. Also, Dr Jide Idris, former Lagos State Commissioner for Health, said that government should be an enabler, advising that bottlenecks should be removed to ease development in the sector. Commenting, Dr Atinuke Onayiga, Chairman, Health Service Commission, said that a gap analysis would be conducted at the commission and also each of the 28 secondary health facilities, to fill gaps. She said that these would assist all health facilities build momentum for improved service and provide sustainable innovative efforts utilising technology. Onayiga said that the forum provides an avenue for the leadership of hospitals and HSC to brainstorm on solutions to the challenges facing the state’s secondary healthcare system. She said that the platform was also to engender interprofessional collaboration among all cadres of the healthcare workforce.