Mr Babatunde Fashiola, Minister of Works and Housing, on Thursday said efforts are underway to remove crops and buildings that are within the Right of Way (RoW) on the Umuahia-Ikwuano-Ikot Ekpene Road. Chief Sam Onuigbo, member, representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South of Abia, made this known, on behalf of the Minister, during the stakeholders’ meeting  on the reconstruction of the road, at Umudike. It was reported that Onuigbo called the meeting with his constituents, to interface in their matter with the contractors and other stakeholders, and the planned reconstruction of the 49-km road. He said the Minister had asked him to address the constituents on his behalf, on the development so as to enable the contractors have an unfettered access to the road as they resume work. Onuigbo said the Federal Government had awarded the reconstruction of the road that was attracted by him, in May 2019, to the sum of N13.2 billion, but that the contractors were handicapped by paucity of funds. He said government later approved the provision of alternative means of funding the road on Oct. 27, 2021, under the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Road Tax Credit Scheme. Mr Bede Obioha, the Federal Controller of Works, Abia, who was also represented on the occasion by Mr Bede Obioha, said work would soon commence any moment this month on the road after addressing all areas of concern with people of the area. The Controller said those whose structures and crops are not within the RoW would be compensated, whereas those not affected, should not expect any compensation from government. Mrs Grace Gbagi, the Public Relations Executive of the contractors, Messrs. Hartland Nigeria and Raycon & Company Nigeria Limited, said they would move back to site as soon as funds are released. In a remark, His Royal Highness, Ogbonnaya Agwu, the traditional ruler of Ajatanigu Autonomous Community, Oboro Clan, pledged the support of the communities for a successful reconstruction of the road.