A ride-hailing company, Bolt, says it has partnered an auto-care firm, Fixit45, to provide drivers with improved access  to cost-effective auto-care and repair financing to ease drivers’ burden. Femi Akin-Laguda, the Country Manager, Bolt, said this in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos. Akin-Laguda said the aim was to make drivers keep their cars in great conditions and save them a lot of time and money in maintaining their vehicles. Bolt is an Estonian mobility company that offers vehicle for hire, micromobility, car-sharing, and food delivery services. It operates in over 300 cities in 45 countries in Europe, Africa, Western Asia and Latin America. Fixit45 provides fleet management, auto parts sourcing and delivery, auto care, refurbishment and upgrades, repair financing, and mechanic workshop. According to him, the partnership is premised on Bolt’s dedication and commitment of Fixit45 to ensure a seamless auto-care and auto-repair, maintenance services, fleet management in Nigeria. He said the subscription-based plan would minimize drivers’ waiting period due to faults and improve their chances of income optimisation. “Our commitment is reflected in our constant effort to build new avenues that help to make our drivers and fleet partners more profitable.” “Working with Fixit45 on this project will lead to better experiences for all our customers, be the drivers or passengers,” he said. The Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, Fixit45, Justus Obaoye, said that it was imperative that concerted efforts were made to mitigate disruptions in the ride-hailing space. Obaoye said that Fixit45 was excited to partner with Bolt in the ride-hailing space. “This service plan ensures that drivers’ inactivity often occasioned by vehicle operational downtime is minimized and hasten service turnaround time.” “This partnership with Bolt is poised to keep the lights of the Nigerian economy on,” Obaoye said. Abdulazeez Ogunjobi, Co-founder, Fixit45, said the strategic engagement would help make life easier and put both firms at the forefront of driving change.