MTN Nigeria Communications PLC has denied receiving any communication regarding an impending disruption of telecommunications services by telecoms workers over anti-labour practices. In a statement signed by the Company’s Secretary, Mr Uto Ukpanah, on Thursday, the company said that since it was unaware of such notice, it, therefore, would be unable to validate or comment on the issues. Our correspondent reports that the Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN) had on Feb. 8 threatened to disrupt services if their demands were not met. The workers had demanded that MTN Nigeria agrees on a two-week physical meeting to round off a Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiation and sign off the document. The workers also called for the immediate lifting of the embargo the company placed on some workers from membership of the union to allow the workers join the union, among others. The statement, however, said that MTN Nigeria remained committed to continued engagement with PTECSSAN and its representatives via established channels. “If there are any concerns, we are sure that they will be brought to our attention and dealt with in a mutually beneficial manner,” it said. Speaking, the Chief Human Resources Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mrs Esther Akinnukawe, said that the company was dedicated to empowering employees and instilling in them a responsibility for its customers and communities. Akinnukawe said: “Our company cares immensely about the wellbeing of its workers, and regularly reviews people solutions and policies to ensure that they meet global best practice and make MTN Nigeria a great place to work.” “We are committed to the development of our people and value their hard work and dedication. “Our workforce is our most critical competitive advantage and a key differentiator in the marketplace, so we take staff welfare, remuneration and career development seriously.” “In line with this, we have stringent policies in place that promote meritocracy and protect our employees from all forms of harassment and discrimination and creates a workplace where employees feel valued and safe.”