The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN) has stressed the need for the government and players in all sectors of the economy to focus on green and sustainable eco-friendly measures. Mrs Abiola Laseinde, Chairperson, Corporate Members and Training Committee, ICSAN, gave the advice at a press conference on Monday in Lagos. She said a sustainable eco-friendly clime is in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of achieving zero emission by 2060 at the 2021 United Nations Climate Change conference held  in Glasgow, Scotland. Laseinde said the institute, in an effort to engage stakeholders in all sectors of the economy on adopting green and sustainable eco-friendly measures, would hold a company secretaries and registrar’s forum in Lagos. She said that the forum, with the theme “Sustainability and the Future of Green Economy: A Governance Perspective” is slated for Feb. 10. The chairperson said it would enable institutional investors, board members and capital market players to have a discourse on critical environmental issues that could be implemented all through the year. Laseinde urged multinational companies and agencies of government to adopt a common strategy to minimise the effect of climate change in the country via green sustainability measures. “Green economy means a people-centric economy with focus on sustainability which is futuristic.” “Now is the time to ensure that investors, companies and government diversification agenda are green and eco-friendly to minimize the effect of climate change.” “Key players of the economy should henceforth think about sustainability before investment to help preserve the global economy.” “We are also looking at measures to adopt to ensure that traders and other players in the informal sector imbibe the rightful attitude in disposal of items such as nylons in order not to endanger the ecosystem,” Laseinde said. In her remarks, Mrs Linda Onafeli, Chairperson, Planning and Advocacy Committee, ICSAN, urged governments to provide the necessary infrastructure to support the green economy initiative. Some key personalities expected at the conference include Mr Seyi Owoturo, President, Institute of Capital Market Registrars; Mrs Constance Kol-Lawal, Environmental and Social Risk Manager, Africa Finance Corporation; and Mrs Rukaiya El-Rufai, Partner PriceWaterhouse Coopers.