The All Progressives Congress (APC), South African Chapter, has expressed concern over the return of fuel queues at filling stations in Lagos and some parts of the country. Mr Bola Babarinde, the Chairman of the chapter, in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos, urged the Federal Government to punish those involved in the scarcity of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly known as petrol. Babarinde said: “The common sights at petrol stations in Nigeria during regime of PDP resurfaced yesterday (Monday) in Lagos and some parts of Nigeria. “Initially, it was rumoured that stations are hoarding fuel in anticipation of increase in prices of petroleum products by Federal Government, I never believed though. “I don’t believe in panic buying especially when we know if prices are increased we will continue to buy at that rate how much can we save rushing to buy now.” According to him, the situation is clearer that the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd allows substandard PMS into Nigeria again after many years President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has stopped fuel scarcity. He noted that the Federal Government had sustain uninterrupted supply of petroleum products to Nigerians for many years. Babarinde said that the enemies of the government were constantly looking for where they would criticise the regime even when they knew their criticism would hold no water. “This recent event of importation of poor quality fuel is a grave concerns to well meaning Nigerians and we members of APC in Diaspora are concern that bad products were successfully imported and even allowed to be distributed to consumers. “The officials involved should be investigated and all culprits should be tried and sanctioned. “This type of behaviour is negative to great work the administration is doing to restore confidence in APC government despite enormous challenges facing our country,” he added. The APC chairman said that the development was avoidable and no excuse for it at this time in Nigeria. “The Federal Government should quickly make statement and apologise to Nigerians whose cars and equipment were damaged due to the carelessness of the people we entrusted with the management of our petroleum ministry. “Compensations must be given to all Nigerians affected by this dastardly behaviour of NNPC staff. “We will continue to monitor this situation as interested party to good governance in Nigeria and for the love of our country and our party,” he said. The Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Mr Clement Isong, reportedly said that the queues were due to some operational challenges.