The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Ltd and the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments (CISI) have pledged to strengthen their synergy to boost professionalism across the financial services sector. They made the pledge at a digital closing ceremony to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the CISI, hosted by the NGX on Thursday, in Lagos. The Director of Global Business Development, CISI, Mr Kevin Moore, said the partnership with the NGX had continued to thrive over the years and would continue to do so through a wide range of trainings for professionals. Moore said that the NGX was one of the best partners of the CISI globally, in a country it considered “one that was most exciting to be working with”. According to him, some of the founding members of the CISI, who were still around would be amazed at how  the institute had grown from 5,000 members of predominantly London-based stockbrokers, to over 45,000, 300 in Nigeria, among others globally. The Divisional Head, Listings Business, NGX, Mr Olumide Bolumole, applauded the strides of the CISI as a leading global body for securities investment for financial body professionals. Bolumole said that the event was significant for the institute since its emergence on the London Stock Exchange, through its commitment to building an enviable reputation for professionals in the sector. He added that the NGX, through its X-Academy learning platform, had partnered with the CISI towards achieving greater public benefits. ”This is by raising professionals across financial services, through a wide range of training and certifications on financial investment operations.” Bolumole said that with the need to acquire knowledge and working with the CISI, the NGX introduced trainings on Islamic Finance, including Sukuk and other capital market instruments. The doyen of the market, Alhaji Rasheed Yussuff, said that the collaboration between the NGX and Nigeria’s Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) had been a rewarding one and asked for the relationship to be deepened.