The National Assembly is set to transmit the 1999 Constitution Amendment Bill to the state Houses of Assembly by February for concurrence. Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives Ahmed Wase, said this at a joint retreat of Ad hoc Committee for further altercations to the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Friday in Abuja. Wase, who is also the Chairman of the Constitution Review Ad hoc committee, said that the committee was aware of the enormous responsibilities thrust on it by the National Assembly, adding that it would ensure that everything was done to ensure it reached a conclusive end. ”We will allow the bill to go to states before the end of this February, I am seeking for cooperation from everybody so that we can deliver,” he said. Oh his part, the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege said:”the COVID-19 pandemic affected our time line, but now we are progressing and hopefully to ensure all is done before the end of this month”. He said that the committee’s progress had been made possible because of partners who had provided strong impetus for legislative governance. He stated that over 55 Bills had been submitted for Amendment, stressing that the committee would not relent on its effort to give Nigeria the best
He said that it was incumbent on the committee to take a look at the Bill and examined them clause by clause, stressing that the committee had limited time to work. “We have limited time to transmit this work and present to the state Houses of Assembly. We will be guided by what is best for the people and in the national interest,” he said. Our correspondent reports sections 9 (2) and (3) clearly outline the procedure for amending provisions of the Constitution. It was reported that to amend the Constitution, a bill has to get the approval of two-thirds of members of each of the Senate and the House of Representatives as well as the state Houses of Assembly. However, while Section 9(2) requires the votes of two-thirds of members of both houses of the National Assembly and approval by a The Senate has 109 members and the House 360, while there are 36 states in the federation.