RedGecko PR Limited has announced the public presentation of a book authored by H.E. Dr. Kayode Fayemi, CON, titled “Unfinished Greatness: Envisioning a New Nigeria” on Thursday, February 24, 2022.  The event is to be chaired by H.E. General (Rtd.) Yakubu Gowon, GCFR, Former Head of State, and will feature a keynote address by Prof. Adebayo Olukoshi, Distinguished Professor, Wits School of Governance and Immediate Past Director for Africa and West Asia, International IDEA. Dr. Joe Abah, the Nigeria Country Director, DAI Global, will be the book reviewer, with a stellar intergenerational line-up of panelists including: Waziri Adio, Editorial Board Member, ThisDay Newspapers; Yemi Adamolekun, Executive Director, Enough-is-Enough Nigeria; Ndi Kato, Executive Director, Dinidari Africa; and Hamzat Bala Lawal, Founder and Executive Director, Connected Development.  The foreward was written by H.E. General (Rtd.) Abdulsalami Abubakar, GCFR, Former Head of State, and in it he said “The title Unfinished Greatness inspires hope in us that our march into the future is a purposeful journey of destiny.”  In the words of H.E. Dr. John Dramani Mahama, Former President of Ghana: “Nigeria remains central to the vision of an African renaissance. In Unfinished Greatness, Fayemi reminds us of the power of unity in nation-building.  The ideas in this book encapsulate the roadmap for peace and sustainable development in Nigeria, and indeed the rest of Africa”, while Professor Tunde Adeniran, Former Minister of Education states that “Unfinished Greatness convincingly challenges false narratives about our trajectory as a country and offers profound historical insights to prove that there is more that unites us than our differences.”  Fayemi is a transformational leader and public servant who currently serves as Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum. He has a background in the academia and civil society, and is a widely published author and public speaker on governance and democratization, civil-military relations, and security sector issues in Africa. He is also a Former Minister of Mines and Steel Development.  According to Mr. Cornelius Onuoha, Managing Director of RedGecko Limited, who are the organisers of the book presentation, members of the public can attend the hybrid event (physical and virtual) by registering via the link bit.ly/unfinishedgreatness to attend virtually, while registration for limited seats to attend physically is via: bit.ly/unfinishedgreatnessphysical. The event will hold by 11.00 a.m. on Thursday, February 24, 2022, at the NAF Conference Centre in Kado, Abuja.