President Muhammadu Buhari says he will continue to seek constructive engagement with members of the medical profession. Buhari made the pledge on Thursday in Abuja, at a reception in honour of Dr Osahon Enabulele, President of the World Medical Association (WMA) elect. Represented by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, Buhari said that the Federal Government was doing everything possible to bring equity in the medical profession. Buhari, who also said efforts were on to promote research around medical profession, commended Enabulele for attaining the feat as the President-elect for WMA. According to Buhari, It is a thing of pride that Nigeria medical professionals are now competing around the world, an evidence why Nigeria was elected president of WMA. Buhari said that the hard work of  Enabulele and his intellectual prowess earned him the feat, and urged him to use the good office in promoting everything about Nigeria’s desire in the WMA. He, therefore, expressed confidence in the personality of Enabulele saying that, he would bring to bear Nigeria human capacity in the WMA. “This is an historic event, one of our own has been elected into the world  leadership. It is our pride that Nigeria doctors are doing the country proud.” “The election of Enabulele was due to his hard work and quality embedded in him,” he said. Buhari also said that government would continue to protect its citizens, adding that Nigeria performance in the COVID-19 report was a testament to government readiness to protect its citizens. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, congratulated Enabulele, saying that the white knew what they saw before they chose the black to lead the world. Our correspondent reports that prominent Nigerians among whom are Senate President Ahmed Lawan and Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila all showered encomium on Enabulele in their goodwill messages. Lawan was represented at the event by Sen. Ibrahim Oloriegbe, Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, while the speaker of the house was represented by Rep. Tanko Sununu, Chairman, House committee on Health Services. The NMA President, Prof. Innocent Ujah, said that this was the first time a West Africa physician would be elected President of WMA since the global body of physician was established in  1947. He said that Enabulele was also the first Nigerian physician to be elected President of Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA). He said that members of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) was very happy and proud of the historic achievements of Enabulele. “I wish to state very clearly that am happy and elated that this epoch-making achievement is recorded during my time as the President of NMA.” “Our brand-new WMA president-elect, you have earned this great distinction and we are confident that you will continue to play your role in contributing to the growth of WMA towards improved global health security,” he said. The WMA president elect said he would do his best for the upliftment of global health. He said that he would present maximum health needs of Nigeria at WMA. He also pledged to set up a mentorship platform to encourage young medical personnel, adding that he would much more with the confidence reposed on him. Enabulele said he would to do everything within the WMA ethics, as ethical standard was always upheld within the association. It was reported that Enabulele will be sworn-in as the new WMA president in October 2022.