The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), says it will arrest anyone who may want to foment trouble during parties primaries and governorship election in Osun State. Its spokesman in the state, Atanda Olabisi, said the announcement became necessary following insinuations by the state government that unnamed persons were stockpiling fake paramilitary uniforms in the state preparatory to the elections. Osun State Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, had stated on Thursday that government was in receipt of credible report that the uniforms were being stockpiled for use by thugs during the elections. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is scheduled to hold its governorship primaries on Feb. 19, while election proper holds on July 16. Olabisi stated that the Osun Commandant of the NSCDC, Emmanuel Ocheja, had ordered a covert operation to arrest hoodlums, thugs and miscreants before, during and after the elections. Ocheja vowed that criminal elements planning to foment trouble, create panic and thwart the relative peace enjoyed in Osun State would be apprehended and prosecuted. He assured that the NSCDC would clamp down on any impostor that would wear the uniform or any accoutrements of any paramilitary organisation to unleash mayhem on the state. “We shall provide adequate security and maintain peace in the state at all times.” “The corps is a neutral and non-partisan organisation whose good name, image and principles were built by hard work, patriotism, excellence in service delivery and huge sacrifice.” “We will not allow anyone to destroy the integrity or progress of the corps, as we continue to work assiduously to defend our Constitutional mandate,” Ocheja said. He said the NSCDC’s Intelligence and Investigation Department had been mobilised to embark on surveillance to fish out and prosecute hoodlums bent on causing chaos in the state. This, he added, would serve as deterrent to other criminally-minded individuals in the state. He also assured law-abiding residents to go about their lawful businesses as the NSCDC was beaming its searchlight at every nook and cranny of the state. The commandant enjoined members of the public to be alert, be security conscious and report any suspicious movement to the civil defence office nearest to them. Ocheja also warned parents and guardians to discourage their children and wards from being used as thugs as anyone found culpable would face the full wrath of the law.