Mr Wale Raji, Representing, Epe Federal Constituency, has built and inaugurated newly constructed 120 stalls at Itoikin market and handed it over for free to traders. Raji disclosed this at the inauguration of the 120 stalls in Itoikin, in Epe, on Wednesday. He said that the local council development chairman, the Itoikin market leader and traditional leaders would synergise on how to allocate the stalls to traders, and particularly to the indigenes as beneficiaries. According to him, the market was an open ground where the traders carried out their trading businesses. “I now deemed it fit to build a 120 open stalls for the traders, to have a shade and a good working/conducive environment to carry out their activities.” “The stalls are given for free to traders in order to boost the socioeconomic activities of the community,” he said. He said that this was the first phase of the projects, other projects would follow soonest. Raji cited some of the proposed projects as, building of Aiyetoro, Ayandelu, Ayebo and Ilara markets, in Epe federal constituency. Raji also mentioned some of his achievements in the past few months/years as: construction of a fully furnished ICT centre, at Ogumodede high school, Epe, rehabilitation of roads, installation of solar powered lights, construction of 42 classrooms across Epe federal constituency, among others. He said that the idea of the initiatives was to redesign and set a new standard for modern day representation. Also, Mr Abiodun Tobun, Member, representing Epe Constituency 1, applauded the federal lawmaker for his giant strides in community market developmental concepts. “I am proud of you sir, Mr Wale Raji, member, representing Epe federal constituency, for all your laudable projects you have been doing in the constituency.” “The federal lawmaker had done monumental projects and we appreciate him. The market women and men should guard the market stalls judiciously and promote unity among themselves,” he said. Oba Ismail Aderibigbe-Ayandelu, the Alayandelu of Odo-Alayandelu in Agbowa-Ikosi, Epe Division, expressed his unalloyed appreciation for the market built in Itoikin. He noted that the federal lawmaker’s intervention projects were second to none, having done excellently well in several community development programmes and projects. The Oba, therefore, urged the lawmaker to continue with his good work and intervene in other areas of community need. Earlier, Mr Wale Anomo, Chairman, Eredo local council development area, commended the federal lawmaker for his laudable intervention projects in Epe federal constituency. “I am indeed proud of his representation, he has done marvellously well toward community development projects.” “I appreciate and extol him most sincerely and I pray for more monumental achievements, ” he said.