A 76-year-old man, Mr Samuel Akande, on Thursday dragged wife, Gift, before an Iyana-Ipaja Customary Court, for allegedly refusing to cook for his daughter when she visited. Akande, who resides in Idimu in Lagos, told the court that he had been married to Gift, 37, for thirteen years. He also accused his wife of adultery, denying him sex and being ill-tempered who frequently fights with him and their tenant. ”My wife does not listen to me. She does not stay at home. She frequents churches.” ”A man came to my house with a witness  who told me that he was sleeping with my wife.” “My wife waved the allegation off when I confronted her.” “The straw that broke the camel’s back was when my daughter paid us a visit all the way from Ibadan, my wife refused to cook for her,” he said. He said when he asked her, she said his daughter did not inform him that she was visiting. Gift, attested to the claims of the petitioner that she refused to cook for his daughter. “What he said about me not cooking for his daughter when she came visiting is true. I was nursing a sick child.” ”After the incident, I traveled with my husband’s friend’s to Ibadan and apologised to my step- daughter over the way I treated her,” she said. Our correspondent reports that the friend of the petitioner, Pastor Vincent Omojeye, confirmed before the court  that  the respondent visited her step-daughter to apologise. “My Lord, what I see here is diversity in culture in the sense that the respondent is not a Yoruba and you know how the Yorubas like to be respected.” “Although I have rebuked her for the way she treated my friend’s daughter when she visited them.” “I pray the court to beg the petitioner to give her a last chance because her children are very young,” Omojeye said. After listening to both parties, the President of the Court, Mrs P.O. Adeyanju, cautioned the respondent for her unwelcoming attitude towards her step-daughter. Adeyanju ruled that the case should be stood down and filed in the Alternative Dispute Resolution,( ADR) in the chamber, after the petitioner agreed to give his wife one last chance.