Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja has fixed March 9 for the former Head of Service, Stephen Oronsaye to open his defence in the alleged N2.7 billion fraud. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) charged Orosnsaye with using inflated biometrics enrollment contracts, collective allowances and other schemes to siphon money from accounts in which pensioners funds were kept. Justice Ekwo fixed the date on Thursday, after the prosecution closed its case following the testimony of the 21st Prosecution Witness, (PW21) Mr Umar Aba-Tilde. While being led in evidence by the prosecutor, Mr Oluwaleke Atolagbe, Aba-Tilde told the court that Oronsaye was not a signatory to the pension account. Aba-Tilde, a compliance officer with Zenith Bank PLC told the court that he could not ascertain whether Oronsaye ever made an endorsement for withdrawal from the account. The banker revealed that two withdrawals, N161 million and N28 million were transferred to a company on July 6 and July 7, 2010 respectively. He confirmed that mandates relating to the pension accounts were submitted by his bank to the EFCC on January 2020 based on request. The witness further told the court that a letter of Aug. 24, 2010 signed by Oronsaye as the then head of service of the federation instructed the bank that all e-payments must henceforth have final endorsement from the office. The witness, under cross examination by Mr Joe Agi, (SAN) lead counsel to Oronsaye, informed the court that the defendant was not a signatory to the pension account. He added that Dr. Shuiab Teidi, Mrs E.U Chide, Mohammed Ahmed, Hassan Mohammed and Attah Danladi were the signatories to the account. The witness further told the court that he was in the Kano branch of the bank when the two transfers were made and would not know if Oronsaye made any endorsement. Atolagbe then informed the court that with Aba-Tilde’s testimony, the prosecution had closed it’s case. Agi announced that he intended to call two witnesses to testify for his client and prayed the court  for an adjournment to enable the defendant open his defence. Justice Ekwo subsequently fixed March 9 and 10 for Oronsaye to open his defence.