The Lagos State Government has advised the Nigeria Police to explore  Public Private Partnership (PPP) in rebuilding and rehabilitating as well as welfare of its personnel to ensure effective policing. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu gave the advice on Tuesday, when the Board of Trustees (BOT) of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund paid him a courtesy call in his office in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, advocated for the involvement of private sector through PPP to rebuild and rehabilitate Nigeria police barracks and offices so as to bring back its lost glory. According to the governor, there is need to support the police and the role of government is to protect lives and property of the citizens, but the people that are constitutionally enshrined to protect the citizens are the police. The governor, who noted that there were so many Nigeria police assets wasting away, urged the authorities to be more open minded in involving the partnership of private sectors. “So, it is only logical to equip and train them. That is why it is necessary for the Lagos state government to set up the State Security Police Trust Fund. ”So that we can raise revenue outside of the budget to assist the police to be more efficient. “I enjoin them to think outside of the box on how to revive some of the dilapidated buildings in the barracks and offices so that it can be redeveloped. “Nigeria police must be well funded and trained so as to give its best in protecting its citizens,” he said. Sanwo-Olu assured that his administration would continue to support the force in the best way it could. He said: “we cannot do without the police in any state or country otherwise we will be dealing with criminals. “Therefore, we will continue to assist with security apparatus and we are ready to partner with the police to achieve the best in curbing crimes in the state.” Reacting, the Chairman, Rtd. Inspector General of Police, Suleiman Abba, who was represented by CP Adepoju Ilorin, described the PPP idea as laudable. He noted that the IGP remained ready to welcome any ideas or suggestions that could add value to the Nigeria police. According to Abba, the BOT are in Lagos state on a fact finding mission, adding that they are in Zone 2 Command in Lagos state to check their facilities, the situation of the welfare of the officers, the offices and barracks. Abba also noted that the purpose of the visit was to appreciate the Lagos state government for its support and to sought for continued partnership with the Nigeria police. “It is obvious that the state of our office buildings and accommodation are not okay and nothing to write home about as most of them are not habitable. “We need the provision of state of the art equipments for police operations in order to provide adequate security for Nigerians and as well as provision of welfare to the personnel. “Without good Welfare, performance may be dwindling,” he said. It was reported that members of the BOT were led by Lagos Commissioner of Police, CP Abiola Alabi. Also present at the meeting were: Mrs Folashade Jaji, Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Mobolaji Daba, Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor and Dr Abdulrasaq Balogun, Executive Secretary, Lagos State Security Trust Fund. 