Prof. Abdulquadri Abikan, immediate past Director, School of Preliminary Studies, University of Ilorin (Unilorin), has been nominated for conferment of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). Abikan was shortlisted among 129 legal luminaries for the coveted title, according to a Unilorin bulletin issued on Monday. It said the Professor of Islamic Law was shortlisted by the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee (LPPC) for the topmost legal professional rank in the academic category. It said that the list, which was published pursuant to paragraph 12 Subsection 2 and 20 of the legal practitioners’ privileges committee guidelines of 2018, has 73 practicing lawyers and 56 academic applicants. “Other names on the list include those of the founding Dean of the Faculty of Law, University of Ilorin, Prof. Muhammad AbdulRazaq; the Ciroma of Ilorin, Mr Abubakar Sulu-Gambari; a member of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) Board, and Mr Mumini Hanafi. “Also listed includes Mr Wahab Shittu, the son of First Republic Senate President, Orji Nwafor-Orizu; and the son of former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Ikani Kanu-Agabi, among others,” the bulletin said. Quoting a statement, Mr Hajo Sarki-Bello, the Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court, who doubles as the Secretary of LPPC, the publication stated that the shortlist comprised candidates who passed through the advocate filtration stages and academic pre-qualification exercise. “‘The general public is at liberty to comment on the integrity, reputation, and competence of the listed applicants. “However, any complaint(s) presented to the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee must be accompanied by a verified affidavit deposed to before a Court of record in Nigeria,” it said. According to the bulletin, the Chief Registrar asked members of the public who have any such comments on any of the candidates to make the same before 4 p.m. on July 18, with 20 copies of such complaints in line with the guidelines. “If he scales through the rigorous screening exercise, Abikan will be the fourth Unilorin Law don to attain the enviable SAN rank,” it said. 