Barely two days to the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, ram sellers in Bauchi have decried low patronage amid high cost of the animals. It was reported that Eid-el-Kabir otherwise called Eid-al-Adha, is one of the two main holidays celebrated in Islam. It is being celebrated on the 10th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of Islamic lunar calendar and characterised by animal sacrifice such as rams, sheep, goats, cows and camels. A check by our reporter at the cattle market in Bauchi on Thursday, showed that prices of rams had gone up by over 100 per cent in the past six months. A big size ram was sold for between N150,000 and N250,000 as against its previous prices of N70,000 and N100,000. The medium size ram was sold at N100,000 as against N50,000 it sold during the same period last year. Prices of cows indicated similar increase in prices as a well-bred bull was sold for between N500,000 as against its previous price of N300,000. Malam Sani Bala, a ram dealer, said he was not recording good sales due to low patronage of the animals this festive season. He said that prices had indicated sprawling increase amid improved supply of the animals, a trend which resulted to low patronage. “The customers are only asking of the price without buying. “Rams are being transported to Bauchi from neighbouring states, Niger, Chad and Cameroon Republics. Prices are up in view of the high exchange rate,” he said. Another trader, Hassan Gaji, attributed the hike in prices to high cost of animal feeds and cost of transportation of the animals from other parts of the country. He expressed the hope that the market condition would improve as demand for the animals would increase in the next few days for the festive season. Mr Saidu Garko, a resident, blamed the traders for the unilateral hike in prices to exploit customers, adding that most families in the area would celebrate the season without slaughtering ram. Another resident, Sabiu Rabiu said he could not afford to slaughter ram due to exorbitant prices, adding that “I will not slaughter ram because the sacrifice is not obligatory.” 