The Federal Government on Thursday reiterated its commitment to tackle erosion, flooding and other environmental challenges for a healthy and effective development of the country. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folashade Esan, said this in Abuja, at inauguration of Erosion and Flood Control Works, at Isa Bello Sali Housing Estate, Kurudu, Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Esan said that the project was approved by President, Muhammadu Buhari under the Ecological Project Office`s (EPO) intervention for the first and second quarters of 2021. She said that the project was awarded on Dec. 22, 2021 to Messrs AH Properties and Construction Ltd with a completion period of six months. She said that socio-economic benefit of a good road network increases asset value, as well as facilitate trade and business opportunities of people living in the environment. “The above point, therefore, clearly shows that road connectivity is key and has synergy with livelihood outcomes such as free movement of goods and services. “The government, through its various agencies will continue to take proactive steps to boost road construction across the country as they play a very important role in enhancing opportunities for its citizens. “Adequate maintenance of roads infrastructure is essential to preserve and enhance those benefits,” she said. Esan said that the EPO would continue to focus on erosion, flood control and road enhancement, adding that the government was consistently supporting and funding such projects. She said that the effort was to ensure that an ecological and other impact projects were adequately and carefully tackled. She also said that the Federal Government was committed to ensure that public servants’ welfare were improved to maximise their productivity to enhance service delivery. “The Federal Government is also committed to ensure that it creates an enabling environment for workers to carry out their duties with dignity. According to her, Mr President has never minced words to state that workers` welfare remains paramount on government`s table. “The completion of this project has equally underscored the Federal Government`s concerted efforts and sincerity of purpose in tackling problems of its citizens and making life more meaningful for the people,” she said. Esan, however, urged the residents to take ownership of the project and ensure it was protected. The Permanent Secretary of the EPO, Dr Habiba Lawal, said that the project was executed by the EPO office to tackle the erosion and flooding problems as well as enhance the road infrastructure at the estate. She thanked the contractor and the consultant for ensuring that the project was completed on time and in accordance with the specifications as contained in the contract documents. According to her, the commissioning and handover of this project to the benefiting community is expected to achieve the purpose of enabling community to ensure the sustainability of the project. She observed the deplorable nature of the access road to the estate and gave the assurance that EPO would give it a facelift. Also, FCT Minister, Alhaji Mohammed Bello, represented by the Permanent Secretary of FCT, Mr Adesade Olusade, said that the project would impact positively on the lives of the residents. Bello said that the FCT administration would ensure that it would continue to addressing various challenges caused by erosion, flooding and other environmental issues. He said that the effort would promote a healthy environment and increase development in the FCT. The minister called on the residents and other communities in the FCT to desist from any activities that would cause damage to the environment. The Chairman of the estate, Mr Sunday Odufuwa, on behalf of the residents, thanked the government and EPO office for their support to ensure that the project was carried out effectively. Odufuwa also appealed for the extension of the intervention works to cover other areas that were having erosion challenges.