The Nigerian Meteorology Agency (NiMet) has predicted thunderstorms and sunshine from Thursday to Saturday across the country. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Wednesday in Abuja predicted cloudy atmosphere on Thursday with sunshine intervals over the northern region with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Kaduna state during the morning hours. According to it, there are prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of southern Borno, Bauchi, Gombe, Taraba and Kaduna state during the afternoon and evening hours. “Thunderstorms are anticipated over Nasarawa, Federal Capital Territory, Kogi, Niger and Plateau state in the morning. Later in the day, Cloudy atmosphere with sunshine intervals are expected over the region. “Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the Inland cities and the Coastal cities of the South in the morning hours with the exception of Akwa Ibom and Cross river state where isolated thunderstorms are expected. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Enugu, Imo, Anambra, Abia, Oyo, Ogun, Ondo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Delta, Rivers and Lagos state,” it said. The agency envisaged cloudy atmosphere on Friday with sunshine intervals over the northern region with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of southern Adamawa and southern Taraba state during the morning hours. According to the agency, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Bauchi, Taraba, Borno, Kaduna and Adamawa state later in the day. NiMet forecast North central region to be cloudy with sunshine intervals. “Later in the day, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Plateau, Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa and the Federal Capital Territory. “ Cloudy atmosphere is anticipated over the Inland cities and the Coastal cities of the South with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Akwa Ibom and Cross River state in the morning hours. “There are prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Imo, Anambra, Ogun, Oyo, Enugu, Osun, Abia, Ondo, Edo, Delta, Bayelsa, Cross River and Rivers state during the afternoon and evening hours,” it said. The agency anticipated prospects of isolated thunderstorms on Saturday over parts of Adamawa, Taraba, Kaduna and Gombe during the morning hours. It predicted cloudy atmosphere with sunshine intervals over the northern region later in the day. NiMet envisaged North central region to be cloudy in the morning hours with the exception of Nasarawa, Plateau, Benue, Kogi and Niger state where isolated thunderstorms are expected. It forecast cloudy atmosphere with sunshine intervals during the afternoon and evening hours with Cloudy atmosphere over the Inland cities and the Coastal cities of the South in the morning hours. According to it, there are prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Abia, Imo, Enugu, Anambra, Edo, Rivers, Delta, Cross River, Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom state during the afternoon and evening hours later in the day. “Potential impact: Strong winds are likely to precede the rains especially over Northern cities and as such, unsecured objects and weak buildings may be blown away. Trees, roofs, electrical poles and their wirings may be displaced. “Electric surges can occur, so the public is advised to be cautious; to reduce incidences of erosion and overflow of water beyond its normal limit“ it said. According to it, gutters and water ways should be cleared of debris and obstacles to ensure free flow of water. NiMet advised airline operators to get updated weather reports from the agency for effective planning in their operations.