Metropolitan Catholic Archbishop, Ignatius Kaigama, says the recent primaries held by some political parties have left many Nigerians flabbergasted and sad. Kaigama said this in his homily and pastoral visit on Sunday to Mater Dei Parish, Gwagwalada, Abuja. “Instead of demonstrating love for democracy and exercising their civic responsibility, money was said to be the major factor; not the concern for electing leaders who are honest,” he added. According to him, what Nigeria needs are leaders who are God fearing and able to manage state and national affairs with prudence. “Nigerians must choose to listen to the voice of reason, not influenced by the attraction of money, and to be guided by what is honourable, just, pure, lovely, or gracious,” Kaigama said. The Archbishop said Nigerians must listen to one another, so that “together we can succeed”. “It is imperative for Christians, Muslims and African traditionalists to listen to the voice of God; keep communication channels among us open and realise that what unites us is far greater than what divides us,” he added. He explained that such unity of purpose was imperative to tackle the disconnect, rivalry, and disunity in the country. “Our social and conventional media unfortunately tend to contribute to this. “The unity Jesus prayed for is possible only with the love of God in us,” the Archbishop said. He also delivered the message of Pope Francis on the occasion of World Communications Day titled: “Listening with the ear of the heart.” The message focused on listening to one another and to God’s command at every minute of one’s life. “Communicating and listening are very essential components of daily life and the precious task of evangelization. “God first took the initiative to speak to us and expects us to listen actively when He said in Deutronomy 6:4 ‘Hear, O Israel’.” He said that any society that turned its back on God and refused to listen to God’s words, will not prosper. “Only by paying attention to whom we listen, to what we listen, and to how we listen that we can grow.”