The political enthusiasm had gone wild on youthful representation in the country as it has become fundamental at this point of our national political engagement and discourse. Amidst thrust and plop, the need for quality representation is a must; this is no longer news, and action is deemed fit; to get this done.  The good people of Isokan State Constituency (Yewa North 1) from Ayetoro, Igan Okoto, Imasayi, Joga, Igbogila, Saala orile and Ijaka among others were not left out and they  have anticipated getting a worthy representative at the State Assembly with grassroots relationship, self-minded, and soul with human feeling coupled with the interest of the people at heart. It is clearly evident that this upcoming election would create a paradigm shift in the politics of the nation, as the quest for a reliable hand in the Ogun State House of Assembly (OGHA) has also made the teeming youth to support one of their very own gladiators: Alh. Sharafadeen Awayeti.  The Profile – In Brief Alh. Sharafadeen Awayeti is an aspirant to the seat of the Ogun State House of Assembly (OGHA) in the coming 2023 General Elections. He is young, vibrant and an energetic soul, was born over Forty (40) years ago in Ayetoro to the family of Alhaji Shittu Adisa Awayeti and Alhaja Wuriwat Awayeti, of blessed memory. Alhaji Sharafadeen Olalekan Awayeti started his academic career at a very tender age, he attended RCM Primary School, Ayetoro in Ogun State, for his First School Leaving Certificate, had second position in a quiz competition organized by Focus Social Club for all Primary schools in Yewa land, this alone also earned him a scholarship to crown it all. Afterwards, he proceeded to Comprehensive High School, Ayetoro, Ogun State for his secondary school education, where he had and bagged several merits award to his profile. To further strengthen his vows to personal development and academic excellence, he bagged a National Diploma in Business Studies and completed his Higher National Diploma in Marketing, both from the Prestigious Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, before proceeding to Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso for his Post Graduate Diploma course in Public Administration in his pursuit for more knowledge. Having gone through his academic background, profile and social upbringing, it is no doubt that the aspirant is properly groomed and fit for the job and had the prerequisite  of grassroots knowledge, and he has felt what the masses, especially the good people of Ogun State felt and understands the positions of an average Yewa North resident and citizen. It is worthy to note that Alhaji Sharafadeen Olalekan Awayeti’s Post Graduate Degree (PGD) in Public Administration from Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, has further sharpened his perspective when it comes to democratic governance. He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Nigeria CIBN, and an Associate member of National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria, NIMN. Based on his active participation in Heritage Club of Ayetoro, a club founded on the basis of focusing on development of Ayetoro Land and the State at large, he became the President of the Club through recognition of his contribution, dedication and hardwork to the fulfillment of the aims and objectives of the club. Alhaji Sharafadeen Olalekan Awayeti is a devoted Muslim by birth, God-fearing servant of Allah, he is also an active member of the Ansar Ud Deen Society of Nigeria. Happily married to Awayeti Kafayat Gbemisola and blessed with beautiful children. Meet Alhaji (Mr.) Sharafadeen Olalekan Awayeti, aspirant for the seat of Ogun State House of Assembly (OGHA) representing Isokan State Constituency (Yewa North 1), under the auspices of the All Progressive Congress (APC).