Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun has done so well for the state in three-and-half years of his administration to get re-elected. The declaration was made in Osogbo on Sunday by Oyetola’s Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye. He said that with Oyetola’s achievements and the fulfilment of his campaign promises, opposition parties would not in any way stop his re-election at the July 16 governorship election in the state. Oyintiloye represented Oyetola at a N5 million fund raiser organised by the Osun Chapter of Blacksmiths, Welders, and Iron Benders & Metal Technician Association of Nigeria (BWIAN) when he made the remarks BWIAN organised the fund raiser for the construction of its secretariat. Oyintiloye said at the event that Oyetola’s administration had embarked on infrastructural development; provided soft loans for small businesses; ensured adequate security, and evolved tax-friendly policies for business owners. He added that it was evident that Oyetola’s administration had also done well in health, education, infrastructure, empowerment and security, prompt payment of workers’ salaries and pensions, among others. The aide noted that in spite of paucity of funds the governor had delivered on his campaign promises by giving back dividend of democracy to every sector of the economy. Oyintiloye assured that Oyetola would do more in his second term and urged the electorate not to allow those who lacked adequate knowledge of good governance to deceive them. He urged the electorate to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) ready to support Oyetola at the coming election. He noted that INEC’s report that the rate of collection of PVC in the state is low is not encouraging and reminded the electorate that the PVC is the voters’ power to enthrone good governance. In his remarks, the Senate’s Spokesman, Sen. Ajibola Bashiru (APC-Osun Central), who was the “Father of Day”, said government would always encourage and support small scale industries. Bashiru appealed to members of the association to support Oyetola’s re-election on July 16. Also speaking at the event, Chairman of the association, Mr Sunday Obidokun, said that the association was ready to partner with government to reduce unemployment rate in the state. He appealed to government to assist members of the association with soft loans. Obidokun also assured that members of the association were ready to support the re-election of Gov. Oyetola.