The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has announced a core finance professional, Mr Oluwole Adeosun as its new President and Chairman of its governing council. Adeosun, the institute’s former 1st Vice succeeded the erstwhile President, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe at an election held during the institute’s hybrid annual general meeting on Thursday in Lagos. Our correspondent reports that Adeosun would be formerly decorated with the paraphernalia of office in a high profile event called investiture at a later date. Under the new change of baton, the institute’s 2nd Vice President, Mr Oluropo Dada, emerged the 1st Vice President. Adeosun, a fellow of the institute and multinational professional, brings on board over two decades of robust experience in the financial market. A product of the Loyola College, Ibadan, he holds a B.Sc. (Hons) in Business Administration from the University of Ilorin in 1986 and capped it with Master’s Degree in Business Administration (MBA) and specialises in Finance and Banking from University of Lagos in 1993. Adeosun trained at Coopers at Lybrand (Chartered Accountants), now PricewaterhouseCoopers and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in May 1991. He later qualified as a chartered stockbroker and banker. He has been a long-standing member of the Governing Council of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers since April 2013 and has served as the institute’s first Vice President from 2020-2022 and second Vice President from 2018 to 2020. He also served as a member of the Finance and General-Purpose Committee of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and its Investment Subcommittee. He is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Chartwell Securities Ltd., and a fellow of many major professional institutes in Nigeria’s financial services sector, including, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), CIBN and Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) amongst others. Our correspondent also reports that among the major highlights of the meeting was the re-election of Mrs Fiona Ehimie and Mr Adeyemi Aina to the institute’s Governing Council and election of Mr Ayodeji Ebo and Mrs Elile Olutimayin to the Board. In his remarks, Amolegbe, the immediate past president of CIS, expressed optimism that he had left behind a team of top notch professionals that would further advance the growth and development of the institute. “My priority has always been to enhance the institute’s brand positioning by increasing its visibility via advocacy, while putting the members’ welfare on the front burner.” Amolegbe said.