Barely three days to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries, former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, has announced his resignation from the race and party. I have resigned my membership in the Peoples Democratic Party. – PO. pic.twitter.com/bi4u0u3jmm — Peter Obi (@PeterObi) May 25, 2022  Obi in a letter dated May 24 and addressed to the National Chairman of the main opposition party, Senator Iyorchia Ayu announced his resignation from the party, explained that he took the decision to leave the party because of his firm commitment to rescuing Nigeria, even if the route differs. Although Obi said it was a great honour to contribute to nation-building efforts through PDP, he lamented that the recent developments within the PDP have made it practically impossible for him to continue participating and making such constructive contributions. According to him, the nation’s challenges are deep-seated and require profound sacrifices towards rescuing the country. The presidential aspirant informed the PDP chairman that he has since conveyed his resignation and withdrawal from the primary to the Chairman of Agulu Ward 2, his ward in Anaocha Local Government Area of Anambra State.  Read the full letter below:  27 Niger Drive, GRA Onitsha, Anambra State, Nigeria 24 May 2022  The National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) WADATA Plaza Abuja, FCT  NATIONAL CHAIRMAN’S OFFICE Peoples Democratic Party RECEIVED Sign  Dear National Chairman,  Resignation From Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Withdrawal from the Presidential Contest. I am writing to intimate you of my resignation from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was conveyed to the Chairman of Agulu Ward 2, Anaocha LGA, Anambra, effective Friday 20 May, 2022. Consequently, am by this letter informing you of my withdrawal for the PDP Presidential Primaries. It has been a great honour to contribute to nation-building efforts through our party. Unfortunately, recent developments within our party make it practically impossible to continue participating and making such constructive contributions. Our national challenges are deep-seated and require that we each make profound sacrifices towards rescuing our country. My commitment to rescuing Nigeria remains firm, even if the route differs. I wish to thank you personally for your graciousness and leadership. I wish you well and best of luck in the service of country.  Sincerely,  Peter Obi, CON