About 130 residents of Kwara on Tuesday benefited from a health programme organised by Third Estate Organisation held at Emir’s Palace Clinic, Ilorin. A member of the organisation, Dr Gambari Ibrahim, said that the outreach was born out of the need to improve the health conditions of the people, and based on the understanding that many people do not take good care of their eyes despite the importance of the eyes to the life of every individual as the light to the world. Ibrahim explained that there are a lot of people who have different eye challenges and some are already losing their sight and “we felt that this is something that we can do to support people. “That is why we decided to provide free eye test for the people to check the status of their eyes and treat whatever ailment they have. We provided eye glasses to those that need them and sponsored cataract surgery for those that require them after the screening, all at no cost to patients. “The programme is not a political project. We are doing it to contribute our quota to the development of the society we belong to. “This is not for any party members; it is for everybody who heard about to come for it,” said Ibrahim. The President of the Third Estate, Ibrahim Hassan, said that the programme is organised to contribute their quota to the development of Kwara state. He said the organisation also organised entrepreneurship programme to motivate and encourage retirees and youths who want to be independent. According to him, “we are training the retired civil servants in order to avoid living in poverty after retirement. “The training would help those that have retired to survive after retirement and bring the attention of youths to what they can do aside white collar jobs.” One of the beneficiaries, Alhaji Saad Babatunde, appreciated the organisation for the gesture which, he said, would go a long way in addressing health needs of the people. He urged other organizations to borrow a leaf from Third Estate by ensuring the well-being of the less privileged.