Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transportation and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), has advised the party to ensure that its May 28 presidential primary is fair and credible. Babatope told our correspondent on telephone on Thursday that it was only through a credible process that the right candidate could emerge. “Our great party, the PDP, must get it right at the presidential primary. We must ensure that the process is fair and credible so that we can have the best man as candidate. “If we want to defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) and give Nigerians a better deal in 2023, we should do things the right way from the primary. “But if we fail to allow equity, fairness and credibility to prevail at the presidential primary, I am afraid, we risk losing in 2023,” he said. Babatope described all the aspirants seeking the party’s ticket as experienced politicians with impressive credentials and great leadership records. He said it would be difficult for him to say he had a preferred aspirant among the contenders, which include former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers, and Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state. “That will be difficult; They are all great people and I do not want my personal view, opinion or preference to becloud the party’s choice. I believe the delegates will choose the best,” he said. Babatope described zoning as an albatross to development, saying competence and capacity to deliver should determine the next president. The former minister said that he would not advocate that PDP should zone the presidency to the North or South. He said Nigeria was greatly challenged at the moment and that the next president must be brimming with ideas to fix the country’s problems. “Nigeria is facing so many challenges right now, and it is not going to be an easy job for whoever emerges as the next president. “So in 2023, we need a unifier; we need someone who can solve problems; we need a president brimming with ideas to surmount our challenges. “PDP is a party of ideas and whoever emerges as our flagbearer will surely deliver if elected in 2023,” he said. He expressed optimism that the party would win the presidential election in 2023. “Yes, we will win. We will by God’s grace. PDP will win in 2023 and dislodge APC,” he said.