Dr Chidia Maduekwe, the Managing Director, Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC), has urged filmmakers to sustain the Nigeria’s second position globally in quantity films production, by improving quality of their films. Maduekwe made the plea at the opening ceremony of a seven-day Zuma Film Festival in Abuja. Our correspondent reports that the theme of the festival is entitled: “Show the Money” which underscores the immense commercial benefits that could come from investing in the sector. Maduekwe, who urged Nigerans to invest in films production, said that the sector could not only provide entertainment, but would provide money for stakeholders in the industry. According to him, abundant opportunities inherent in this sector in terms of content creation, employment generation and wealth creation, as well as the cross border impact. He said that the 2022 Zuma Film Festival was organised to provide a platform for film networking between Nigerian filmmakers and their counterparts from other film countries. “It is also aimed at exploring and expanding film co-production opportunities beneficial to Nigerian filmmakers, as well as recognise and reward cinematic excellence and entrench professionalism. “The festive will boost export potential of Nigerian films and herald NIgeria as Africa’s tourism and film destination hub,” NFC chief said. He commended the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration for partnering with the corporation to host the 12 edition of the festival in Abuja. The Minister of FCT, Malam Muhammed Musa, said that the FCT Administration agreed to host the festival, not only because Abuja City is a beautiful location for film production, but to encourage youths to see opportunities in films production. Musa, represented by Mr Samuel Attang, the Director, Operations and Strategy, expressed optimism that the sector would enhance youths empowerment and poverty reduction. Also, Mr Folorusho Coker, the Director-General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), said that the United Nations World Trade Organisation had granted Nigeria the right of global conference co-operative tourism. Coker, represented by the Director of Special Duties, Mr Odeh Anuba, said that this would give filmmakers the opportunities to market their films for tourism development.